As the African National Congress (ANC) national executive committee (NEC) was on Monday locked up in extended discussions in Irene Pretoria analysts opined that Zuma might survive the chop but his credibility as a leader is at stake. I think he [Zuma] is at his weakest level of strength since assuming office. Calls for him to resign reflect a new-found weakness and an emboldened attitude from ANC members who feel they can revolt against him said Daniel Silke a director at Political Futures Consultancy.Silke said if Zuma survives being removed he will have a difficult year ahead. It s going to be a tense number of months for him. What we are seeing are divisions within the ANC for the first time where members are willing to risk their careers to voice their frustration Silke said.Ralph Mathekga of the Clear Content consultancy also saw a dilution of the leader s influence: Zuma is weakening. His hold is becoming weaker. A lot of people are beginning to think beyond him. Mathekga said those opposed to Zuma want to make sure he does not leave the party with a leader of his choice. Discussions of him being removed displace his alliance within the party he said.Zamikhaya Maseti the managing director of Ngubengcuka Research Policy Strategy and Advisory Consulting said Zuma will only step down once ordinary branches join the fight for him to be ousted. When it comes to the NEC and NWC (national working committee) Zuma is relatively strong despite some dissenting voices. When it comes to branches it remains to be seen whether he can command the same support said Maseti.The analysts believed the call reportedly by Cabinet ministers Derek Hannekom Aaron Motsoaledi and Thulasi Nxesi - for Zuma to resign is a reflection of the unease that many branch structures within the party have with the president. It s a combination of unease and out of concern of flagging factions. These ministers have broken ranks and are prepared to have their names attached to an anti-Zuma movement Silke said.The stance taken by these ministers according to Silke could be a sign that they have never been extreme Zuma loyalists. They represent the broader discontent out there he added.Mathekga said the ANC has to clean up the mess [divisions within the party] before it gets to Parliament. If it s dealt with in Parliament it will become a crisis Mathekga added.With rumours of a Cabinet reshuffle having been making rounds for months analysts say if it does happen Zuma might target those that do not have any allegiance to him. He will reshuffle some dissenters. What we will see is a strategic reshuffle. Zuma may decide to expend one or two of his dissenters Silke said.But Maseti said if Zuma is a true leader he will not reshuffle the Cabinet. He can t use a Cabinet position as a stick. It will expose the weakness of his leadership. Just because people do not agree with him does not mean that he can chop off heads. That is a sign of cowardice. 'Paranoid' No. 1 sees enemies everywhereMaseti said Zuma cannot use the stance taken by the three ministers to behead them. He must learn to live with those who are his critics he said.Mathekga however said Nxesi Hanekom and Motsoaledi should resign before Zuma removes them. They should resign. They [ministers] tend to complain but they don t bear the cost of losing their jobs. What they have done is commendable but the question is what is to be done? TMG Digital