Remarkably as he takes his place in the Nedbank Golf Challenge (NGC) he claims to be even more relaxed these days as his priorities have significantly shifted. Golf is definitely not my No1 priority said the older and wiser Goosen. I do the things that I couldn't do you know being home with the kids taking them to school doing home schoolwork with them all the things that I missed out over the years. A back injury that left him in excruciating pain has also helped bring clearer focus to what is and isn't possible.Surgical intervention has helped clear the pain but golf doesn't stir him in the way it used to. My back is as good as it's been ever. I wish I had done the surgery much earlier but I can't complain. Being without pain is a major plus. He has only played in 16 events this year. It means the multiple US Open winner isn't as decisive on the greens as he used to be in his pomp. Well I won't say I'm coming here exactly in great form. I've played two events in the last three months and played like rubbish in those."At least I'm coming here well rested and hopefully I can find a bit of form. Actually in the last couple of events I felt like I played okay but my putting let me down. If I can get the putter going who knows said Goosen.At 47 though he's realistic and philosophical. So the plan next year would be something similar. There's an old saying I've made my living and now I'm trying to make my life."I want to spend more time with Tracy and the kids and the family and really enjoy other things in life that I've passed on over the years to play golf. It wasn't easy to get yourself to just sort of cut back but I'm enjoying it in a way."The few events I've played I've played pretty okay because it was nice to be back out there and you weren't fighting with yourself so much. I've got 48 coming up (February next year). In a couple of years then I'm a senior and then who knows?"You know take it easy the next few years and have a blast at the seniors he said with just a hint of the old competitiveness in his eye. - TMG Digital