Javelin thrower Viljoen has allegedly been waiting for two months for a bonus payment promised by Mbalula to all Rio Olympic medal winners."R70 000 might be small change for a minister but it is not if you have to rely on nothing but overseas competitions to make a living " the athlete said in a Twitter post on Monday.R70 000 might be small change for a minister, but it is not if you have to rely on nothing but overseas competitions to make a living.Viljoen said she had tried numerous times to get hold of the Minister before taking her frustrations to social media but Mbalula retaliated by saying he was told by Viljoen that she did not need the money.Never, ever uttered these words. This is how you are treated for winning an Olympic medal. What a total disgrace. Always doing it on my own. pic.twitter.com/NFmSIqzgyD"@sunetteviljoen is the most arrogant and thankless person let alone being an athlete I've ever met " Mbalula said.@sunetteviljoen is the most arrogant and thankless person let alone being an athlete, I've ever met.The minister went on to accuse Viljoen of harassing him. "Am throughly abused by @sunetteviljoen and her girlfriend day and night"Am throughly abused by @sunetteviljoen and her girlfriend day and night"Emails Calls SMS tweets and everything we've been harassed by someone who doesn't appreciate due process makes demands daily. That's abuse " he said.Emails, Calls,SMS, tweets and everything we've been harassed by someone who doesn't appreciate due process,makes demands daily. That's abuse"What I promised was a top up on that to show appreciation and recognize excellence. This Sunnette demanded before it was even promised "What I promised was a top up on that to show appreciation and recognize excellence. This Sunnette demanded before it was even promised."SASCOC is a sport Confederation of the Department of Sport and Rec athletes were paid - all including Sunnette.For their Rio participation "SASCOC is a sport Confederation of the Department of Sport and Rec, athletes were paid - all including Sunnette.For their Rio participationIf he thought that would silence Viljoen he was wrong."You may criticize me for venting my frustrations on social media but I'm left with no choice. Millions will be wasted on the Sports Awards "You may criticize me for venting my frustrations on social media, but I'm left with no choice. Millions will be wasted on the Sports Awards.