Ellis who was appointed caretaker coach last month following Dutch-woman Vera Pauw s departure is well aware that her chances of a permanent appointment to the post will be greatly enhanced if Banyana put up a solid performance in the women s continental showpiece. We thank Safa (South African Football Association) for giving us the opportunity to take charge of the team but now we also have to raise our hands Ellis said on Tuesday. And if we raise our hands we make them think twice. So that is what we as the technical team will try and do by raising our hands and the players raising their hands. And when we get the results at the end of the day then Safa will have no option (but to give me the job). The Women's Afcon will be held in Cameroon from November 19 to December 3.Banyana will be making their 11th appearance in a row but they have never won the tournament.They were runners four times in 1995 2000 2008 2012 and Ellis was part of some those heartbreaking disappointments as a player. We have been bridesmaids and now we want to be the bride. So hopefully with this fantastic group that we have chosen we will be able to make the country proud. At the end of the day we play for this badge and that is what is important. And with all the hard work that Safa and Sasol have put in behind the scenes what a wonderful way it would be to repay Safa for that. Ellis announced her squad for the tournament on Tuesday and she has retained the bulk of the team that participated at the 2016 Rio Olympic Games in August under the departed Pauw. I have kept the bulk of the squad mainly for the experience gathered over the years and at the Olympic Games. I am more confident than ever that we will do well this time around and I don t mean it will be an easy task. But in terms of the selection if it ain t broken don t fix it and what we can assure all South Africans is that we will do the best we can to emerge victorious. Banyana have been drawn in Group A with Women s African Nations Cup hosts Cameroon Egypt and Zimbabwe.Ellis charges will warm up for the continental showpiece with an international friendly match against Zimbabwe in Harare on Thursday.But the choice of opposition raised eyebrows as Banyana run the risk of giving Zimbabwe better insight into their game plan ahead of their meeting in the opening match of the Nations Cup on November 19. We tried to get other countries but they were not available and we obviously needed a friendly Ellis explained. So this is why we are going to play Zimbabwe. And yes I know they are in our group but it is early days before we even hit the tournament. We will try many things leading up to the tournament and we will try and not give our secrets away. But this is also an opportunity for us to also see them as well.The South Africans return from Zimbabwe on Friday and then depart for Cameroon on Monday.Banyana Banyana squad for the 2016 Afcon:Goalkeepers: Andile Dlamini Yolula Tsawe Roxanne BarkerDefenders: Leandra Smeda Nothando Vilakazi Janine van Wyk Noko Matlou Astria Boks Bambanani Mbane Lebogang Mabatle Nomathemba Ntsibande Midfielders: Mamello Makhabane Amogelang Motau Refiloe Jane Nompumelelo Nyandeni Silindile Ngubane Linda MotlhaloForwards: Shiwe Nogwanya Andisiwe Mgcoyi Jermaine Seoposenwe Thembi Kgatlana - TMG Digital