For many it was a chance to grab pricey items they would usually not bother to buy. The shoes are 50% off here which is great. Normally Topshop prices are crazy said 23-year-old student Alika Ramjee.With clothing hanging over her arm Ramjee calls her mother: Mom what's your size? Tell me all your sizes - pants size costume size shoe size?"Ramjee hit Sandton City to stuff her family's Christmas stockings with small gifts . For all the presents for my immediate family and my boyfriend my budget is R2000 she said. I went online to Sandton Mall of Africa and Hyde Park. There wasn't much advertising [for Black Friday] so I've had to do my own digging. While hunting for presents Ramjee picked out a little something for herself too. Impulse buys are dangerous. I wasn't buying for myself but now I've got these shoes she said holding up a pair of silver heels.Another shopper who walked away from her morning of shopping with more than she had bargained for is Buyiswa Chiloane.Shopping for groceries and a few clothing items for herself and her boyfriend Chiloane scored a deal or two that was too good to resist. I knew for myself I needed shoes and one pair of jeans but I ended up buying three she said holding up a pair of jeans at Zara. At Guess the jeans you buy two for R1100. The total [original] cost is R1 900 so for me it s a bargain - more than R500 that I saved. Chiloane had plans to pay Aldo and Nine West a visit too. At Nine West you buy one get one free now there's a bargain. They are so expensive. While she had caught up with shopping for clothes Chiloane had not yet purchased the groceries she initially went to the mall for. I saw last year [supermarkets] keep on replenishing [the shelves] so I'll go later on. Tumelo Mabasa 26 was less than impressed with the sales bin at H&amp;M however. They're very strategic with the clothes they put out for the sale today. The R100 rack is not that nice."They're not trying to lose out on their best things. The normal ranges aren't even here. I'm not going to buy for the sake of buying he said while queuing at the store to pay for his sister's clothing.The Samsung employee took the day off to avoid the chaos at the electronics store. I took a day off work because I know it's going to be crazy. We're also having a sale at Samsung. It's going to be chaotic. I just took the day off today. Ramjee has some advice for Black Friday shoppers buying Christmas gifts: It's important to get right sizes because you can't really exchange some things. [You] also want [the price] to be a secret. I don't want someone to know that I spent R300 on something that was R700 [as a gift]. So you need to be exact with sizes so they don't need to exchange. TMG Digital