Italian coach Conor O Shea made four changes to the side that lost 68-10 to the All Blacks in Rome last week but from a Springbok perspective that result means little.The Boks infamously leaked 57 points at home against the All Blacks last month so they are not going to take the Italians lightly.The last time they were in Italy in 2014 the Boks laboured to a 22-6 win in Padua a week after they d beaten England at Twickenham.This time around they arrive after a 37-21 defeat to England and also with only one win in their last six Tests. We ve been monitoring Italy the entire year and they pose a different threat to England Bok assistant coach Johann van Graan said. They don t play as much rugby as England they use a long kicking game to pin you back they have a strong scrum which they use to manipulate penalties and most crucially they are a leg-tackling side. Last weekend against England we faced a lot of upper-body tackles but the leg tackles with the second man in over the ball makes them a breakdown threat. And in captain and No 8 Sergio Parisse they have one of the best players in the world who is a talisman for them. We are not underestimating them. O Shea was forced into two changes but he also made tactical changes to face the Boks this weekend.Wing Giovanbattista Venditti flank Francesco Minto hooker Ornel Gega and prop Sami Panico will start against the Boks.Hooker Leonardo Ghiraldini and prop Andrea Lovotti were injured against the All Blacks. Flank Maxime Mbanda and wing Angelo Esposito have been dropped from the starting team.O Shea will only name his reserves later this week while Bok coach Allister Coetzee only names his team on Thursday.SA-born lock Dries van Schalkwyk who played at the Bulls when Van Graan was on the coaching staff in Pretoria will start for the Azzuri. Dries came to the Bulls from Boland and was a very gifted player Van Graan said. He played all loose forward positions and also both lock positions. He wasn t in Pretoria for a long time but he understands the lineout well he runs good lines and is a natural rugby player. Italy team: 15-Edoardo Padovani 14 Giulio Bisegni 13-Tommaso Benvenuti 12-Luke McLean 11-Giovanbattista Venditti 10-Carlo Canna 9-Giorgio Bronzini; 8-Sergio Parisse (captain) 7-Simone Favaro 6-Francesco Minto 5-Andries Van Schalkwyk 4-Marco Fuser 3-Lorenzo Cittadini 2-Ornel Gega 1-Sami Panico. TMG Sport