 The NPA acting through these three officials brought obviously baseless criminal charges against Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan (former SA Revenue Service officials) Ivan Pillay and Mr Oupa Magashula the organisations said on Wednesday morning. This undermined respect for our criminal justice system and punched a hole in the economy. After unprecedented public outrage advocate Abrahams withdrew the charges. Fortunately the president has the power to suspend such officials. Given their obvious failings it would be irrational of him not to exercise this power. President Zuma can still decide to do this on his own and we urge him to do so. The Constitution requires him to act rationally in this case in our view to exercise his power to suspend. We are going to court to make sure the President does what the Constitution requires they added.Their application on Tuesday cames after the FUL and HSF wrote a letter to Zuma on November 1 giving the president an ultimatum to suspend Abrahams and prosecutors Torrie Pretorius and Sibongile MzinyathiThe deadline to respond was Monday at 4pm.The Presidency said on Monday afternoon that it had learnt about the letter from media reports . The Presidency has checked its records and has no record of receipt of this correspondence. The matter will be attended to once the letter has been delivered to the Presidency it said in a statement.Not true said Francis Antonie director of the Helen Suzman Foundation. The letter was acknowledged. Receipt of the letter by the presidency was acknowledged he told eNCA on Tuesday.Antonie said the letter had been sent to various official email addresses including the Presidency s. It seems to me the best reading of this is an extraordinary administrative chaos in the Presidency if multiple letters are sent and they can t find their way to the president he said. This is alarming in the first instance. We re also aware and this is to give another interpretation of it that this administration has been characterised by delay after delay after delay and it would be foolish of me not consider whether or not this is a delaying tactic. I can t say that it is but I have to consider that. TMG Digital