This was on Tuesday when judges of the court unanimously ruled that a former South African Revenue Services (Sars) employee should not be reinstated.JJ Kruger a former anti-smuggling officer at Cape Town International Airport was dismissed in 2007 for calling his team leader Abel Mboweni the k-word.Kruger pleaded guilty in a disciplinary hearing and was issued with a final warning letter valid for six month. He was also suspended for ten days without pay.But when then Sars commissioner Pravin Gordhan got wind of the story he upgraded Kruger's sanction and fired him.Kruger successfully challenged his dismissal at the Commission for Conciliation Mediation and Arbitration and got his job back.Now after a lengthy legal battle by Sars the Constitutional Court has set his reinstatement aside.Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng said it was time South Africans came down hard on acts of racism. Calling an African a [k-word] thirteen years into our constitutional democracy as happened here does itself make a compelling case for all of us to begin to engage in earnest and ongoing dialogue in pursuit of strategies for a lasting solution to the bane of our peaceful co-existence that racism has continued to be. Mogoeng said the use of the k-word had great historical significance in South Africa used previously to delegitimise and dehumanise black people. It follows that the [k-word] was meant to visit the worst kind of verbal abuse ever on another person. Although the term originated in Asia in colonial and apartheid South Africa it acquired a particularly excruciating bite.In his CCMA proceedings Kruger reneged on his guilty plea and denied using the k-word. He falsely claimed that his union representatives had advised him to plead guilty. He also said that he has African friends and that he is a pastor .Mogoeng said Kruger had been dishonest and failed to acknowledge or apologise for his racist remarks. The central feature of this case is the mother of all historical and stubbornly persistent problems in our country: undisguised racism. Are we perhaps too soft on racism and the use of the [k-word] in particular? Should it not be of great concern that [k-word] is the embodiment of racial supremacy and hatred all wrapped up in one? My observation is that very serious racial incidents hardly ever trigger a fittingly and sustained disapproving response. Mogoeng called on courts as custodians of the Constitution to embrace the duty to end racism in making judgment calls. Undoubtedly this matter raises important issues that go beyond the interests of the parties before us. Some of those issues are how employers should deal with racism in the workplace and how CCMA arbitrators are to handle the possible reinstatement of an employee who is guilty of crass racism but does not acknowledge or apologise for it. While the court upheld Sars' appeal it rewarded Kruger with compensation equivalent to six months of his salary at the time of his dismissal because Sars had mishandled his case and exposed him to costly litigation which could have been avoided.- TMG Digital