 Last week they released their call to action. Except it was not so much a trumpet call as a ramble of regrets and utopian ideals.For all their combined history, loyalty and patriotism, the founding document that they published was a failure, a missed opportunity. Why? Because it is dishonest. They want to Save The ANC more than they want to Save South Africa.This first statement lists some problems - the corruption, abuse of privilege, parliament's many failures, inefficiency, broken promises, greed. But the only solution they offer is Get Rid Of The President. Huh? JZ must step down and South Africa will suddenly right itself?Zuma is not the problem - he is the symptom. You may cut out the melanoma that disfigures the body of the ANC, but it is going to take a very sharp scalpel to kill off the cancer. The members of Save South Africa are partially responsible for the disease that ails the ANC. They stood by as silent, obedient party members while the ANC forgot its people, abandoned its principles, abused its power and betrayed its history.There is some blather such as "engaging in national dialogue"; "a renewed climate of civic engagement"; "wear doeks and bandanas"; "silent protests"; and "hashtags". Really? Not one detail about how to deal with the galloping consumption that is killing the ANC?They are merely dipping their toes into a vaguely hopeful pool of "bringing the country back to its days of being a beacon of hope". If they are serious about doing that, this elite group has two choices:One - they can stage a palace coup, a purge of the party. Hundreds of corrupt heads will have to roll before the ANC is "back to its roots". And, as in the French Revolution, they could end up killing everyone, including themselves.This will be a war to the death, because (as the Guptas know) to the victor will go the spoils. To take control of a castle and its treasures you need to do many things - cut off their water, fire diseased carcasses and burning arrows over the walls, dig holes under the foundations, batter at the gates, starve and weaken the entrenched enemy, and then launch a surprise attack with massive forces and savage dedication. This document shows none of the strategy or strength that is needed for a coup d' tat.Two - they can have the courage of their convictions and act as they would have done 30 years ago by splitting from the ANC. Here at least they have more options. They can then begin the hard work of getting a party off the ground; they have status, connections, money and the experience of being organisers and activists in the fight for freedom. They could maybe shave 10% off the ANC vote in 2019 (much as the EFF did in 2014) and so help to democratically remove the ANC from office. They could then work in a coalition government.Or they could go into partnership with another party. For the communists and socialists there is the EFF; for the National Development Plan believers in efficient government there is the DA. The outcome would be the same. JZ Hood and his merry band of thieves would be outlaws once more.But if they carry on as they have started they will end being no more than a Greek chorus crying "Woe! Woe! Woe!" as the demonic star of the show moves his minions in a tight protective pack around him. This is not a moment for the peaceful protests of Gandhi or Martin Luther King. Those movements took decades to gather momentum against the enemies of democracy. South Africa needs saving now.The time for gentle dissension was 10 years ago when Schabir Shaik's accomplice was elected to the office of state president. If they truly want to Save South Africa they will have to face the reality that the house they helped to build is now leaking, dangerous, and must be demolished. They must walk out the door and once more take to the streets, until they either build a new home, or move into an existing block of flats with a strong body corporate. This vague prayer circle singing Kumbaya is not going to cut it.These people surely know that this na ve niceness will get them nowhere. Bandanas and dialogue are not going to cleanse the ANC. If their first loyalty is to their party, they will have to wrestle the ANC onto the operating table and attempt to remove the tumours, knowing that the patient could be too far gone to save. But if they care about the country more, they are going to have to free themselves from their lifelong loyalty to an ideal that is now dead.I pray that the soothing salve of their first statement is just a cover for a brave and bold series of offensives, but I fear not. So with respect and gratitude for all they have done I humbly ask each of the signatories of Save South Africa:Do you have the courage to do what you did in the 1980s?Will you state the systemic problems within the ANC clearly and without fear or favour?Will you fight those problems in the ANC with the same commitment and cleverness that you used against the National Party?Because if not, holding onto a dying dream could be the stuff of nightmares.