 We believe there exists a prima facie criminal case that must be investigated Maimane said in a statement. Maimane was commenting on parliamentary replies from Zuma in which he refused to answer a wide range of questions pertaining to his role in state capture in South Africa. Maimane asked about Zuma s relationship with the Gupta family and whether he had ever received a gift from or visited them.Zuma was also asked about an allegation by former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor that the Gupta family had offered her a cabinet post on condition she assisted with influencing the South African Airways cancellation of the India route. The Presidency in a response to 10 questions stated that their subject matter formed part of the public protector s State of Capture report which was inconclusive . Zuma said after the report was released he was considering the contents of the report in order to decide whether it should be a subject of a court challenge. I therefore cannot answer these questions as they form part of the said report. Maimane said he submitted these written questions last month when it emerged that former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela posed these questions in written form to Zuma on October 6 after he refused to answer them directly. Zuma has now refused to answer to both the Parliament and the public protector on these matters indicating his clear disdain for accountability. We cannot afford dithering and delaying while the country needs answers Maimane said.Maimane claimed the president was beneficiary number one when it came to State Capture and in particular his close relationship with the Gupta family. Maimane said while the president had a right to take the State of Capture report on review in a court of law he could not hide behind the law. He said the public protector s report made a host of scathing allegations against the president. Maimane said if these allegations were inaccurate one would think Zuma would jump at the opportunity to set the record straight in reply to these questions. Rather the president has chosen to play 'hide and seek' with the law and the people of South Africa. The DA will use every avenue possible including the public protector Parliament the courts and the prosecuting authority - to make sure President Zuma is held accountable for his state capture project. - TMG Digital