The motor manufacturer s top spot in this year s Ask Afrika Orange Index was revealed at an awards ceremony in Johannesburg on Tuesday night.In fact, the motor industry dominated the index this year, Volkswagen being among four automotive brands in the Top Ten.The full list reads like this:VolkswagenWoolworthsAudiRoman s PizzaPick n PayNetcareOutsuranceHyundaiMomentumBMW tied with MediclinicThe independently audited ranking of 136 companies - distilled from 15 000 interviews about 228 companies across 33 industries - provide a snapshot of what South Africans consider to be excellent service.Four car brands feature in the coveted Top 10 and two private hospital groups.Interestingly, not a single cellphone network made it into the Top 10 this year, which Ask Afrika MD Sarina de Beer singled out as the most significant shift in this year s results.Not only are consumers less tolerant of bad service than a decade or even five years ago, de Beer says, the pace of social media has made us impatient and self help channels such as mobile banking have made us expect more of call centres. So when they do decide to pick up a phone, it represents a huge escalation, de Beer says. And if the call centre agent can t help, the disappointment and sense of disconnection is huge. Part of the problem is that call centres are mainly staffed by 20-somethings who lack the life skills, experience and often the empathy to deal with older customers.But the biggest development in recent years is consumers' expectation that brands address societal issues. They want companies to share their values, de Beer says. So it s a case of if you value me as a customer, don t send me a birthday SMS, build a school in my area. Some companies fared well when it came to good service; others on the feel good factor, but it was those who did both well which got the high scores. Customer service is just one dimension; it s not enough on its own, de Beer says. Consumers are increasingly after a strong emotional connection. They must feel it, and it must be consistent. Providing top level service is an expensive exercise, de Beer says. Most companies are on track with marketing and innovation; investing heavily in it, but when it comes to the customer service dimension of the business, they aren t keeping up. Companies should be using the data they collect from their customers not only to upsell them, but to understand them better and use technology to serve them as individuals, de Beer says.One of the index s newer benchmarks is fairness. Fairness isn t positively rewarded, because it is anticipated. Yet once a customer feels they have been unfairly treated, it can quickly become a culminating snowball of negativity. Consumers in some regions of the country are a lot more critical and hard to please than others, a direct link with their general happiness levels, de Beer says.The Free Staters are the most critical and hard to please and generally consumers who live on the coast are happier with customer service. They gave the lowest ratings on everything. On the other hand, companies operating in the Northern Cape have it relatively easy when it comes to pleasing their customers - that province s population is generally easy going and tolerant.