Innocent Nhlapo 65 told TMG Digital on Thursday that the speeding motorist missed him by mere centimetres before ploughing into the woman and dragging her for a few seconds then driving off."I was standing on the exact spot that woman was hit. I was talking on the phone. As soon as the robot changed I moved from the spot because I could not hear my brother on the other line anymore " Nhlapo said.The man who owns a second-hand shop on the next street said a few seconds later he heard a bang and loud screams."He hit her so hard. That woman was just screaming in a way I have never heard anyone scream before."She landed on his windscreen and then fell down under the left wheel of his car but he continued driving dragging her until she landed a few metres from where she was hit."This guy didn't even stop at the next stop sign... he just drove off " Nhlapo said."It could have been me that was hit by that car if I had not moved when the robot changed. I just could not believe what happened. I literally stood there for a while. I just froze and everyone who was there was also taken aback because no one took the number plate of the car."Nhlapo said he was concerned about woman who was later taken to Charlotte Maxeke hospital.Another eyewitness Velly Mbado who washes taxis on the corner of Bree and G rard Sekoto streets where the incident happened said he could not even look at the injured woman as she lay on the street."Her whole arm appeared exposed from the dragging. Her leg was exposed and she was bleeding She could not even walk she was just crying " he said.Mbado said the woman who only spoke in English "kept saying 'I want to see my child I want to see my child'. She was in so much pain " he said.According to a security guard in the area an ambulance arrived about an hour-and-a-half later."She lay there for a while as she waited for an ambulance. No one could even touch her because we were all scared. We were just relieved when the ambulance came " said Gift Ramolifho.Police investigations are continuing.