Cook trod the crease like a tortured soul facing 240 balls and hitting just eight fours to score 29 more runs than he did in his other four innings in the series. He s a fighter; I m proud of the character he showed South African captain Faf du Plessis said. It s hardest when you re under pressure to score a big innings like that. South Africa lost the third test by seven wickets on Sunday but they had already won the series with victories in Perth and Hobart.Which made Sunday s result bittersweet for Cook. I ve had a tough time the last couple of weeks that s plain and obvious to say he said. Before the series I knew things were going to be tough. I knew the Aussies had a good bowling line-up. And I got tested. By hook or by crook I suppose or by hook or by Cook there s a line for you I managed to come through it. I knew Australia is a place you can be made or broken. I m leaving with people perhaps being able to see that I can bat better than I have these last few weeks. For Cook who played his 183rd first-class match in Adelaide struggling for runs was nothing new. There have been a lot of times in my career where I ve gone on streaks longer than this without scoring runs he said. I suppose you work out how you can get back. The nice thing is that I never felt like I was playing that badly. Not that he looked like he was playing well. But looks have never mattered much to Cook. It wasn t a pretty show but I ve never been a pretty cricketer he said of his technique. I know it s not classical. I know it s a little bit ugly. I know I crab across the crease. I ve heard many descriptions of it. Unfortunately it s the one I ve got and the one I ve used for a long time. But it s gotten me so far yes I ll do little tweaks and try and make amendments and by and large I stick with what I ve got and try make it work for me. I don t think I m ever going to jump onto the front foot like Ricky Ponting or move in and behind the ball like some other players. For me it s about getting my gameplan going and keeping my disciplines going. But there has been some prettiness in Cook s life on tour in the presence of his wife and young daughter. It s a massive help he said of having his family around. It s amazing how your spirits lift when they arrive. That s when I felt things turned around for me on this tour on a personal level. My family doesn t care whether I ve scored nought or a hundred. My little daughter looks at me the same way today as she looked at me three weeks ago. It shows you what s really important. In the end it s just a game of cricket.TMG Digital