PSL leaders Wits travel to Rustenburg with a one-point lead over SuperSport United and as the only team still unbeaten after five wins and a draw.The Clever Boys though have amassed their 16 points in six games compared to all the other sides in the top five s eight.Hunt will miss Malawian striker Mhango who has brought a notable spark to Wits frontline this season with a hamstring injury.That is one concern for the Wits coach the other being how yet another break in the fixtures after the past 10 days Fifa International break will affect his on-form team. The biggest concern for me is we played four games and then we had a three-week break. Now we ve played another four games and had another three-week break Hunt said on Friday. And we don t know what we re going to get. We all know what happened the last time the last time in our first game back from a three-week break when we played Free State Stars. We were flat we weren t as good as we could have been even though we could have won it. And we lost 3-1 eventually which was a bit of an exaggerated scoreline. So that s frustrating. We ll have to see. We ll be in for a fight we know that. We had a good result in Rustenburg last year [Wits won 4-0 in November 2015]. Stars will still be hurting from that result and we know we ll have to go and give a good account of ourselves. Wits last played on November 1 when they beat Chippa United 1-0 at Dobsonville Stadium to take the PSL lead.They lost 3-1 against Free State Stars in the Telkom Knockout at Goble Park on October 22.That defeat also followed a Fifa break with their pervious result that time having been the club s stirring 3-0 humbling of Mamelodi Sundowns in the MTN8 final.Ninth-placed Platinum Stars bounced back from a seven-game league and cup winless streak with their 1-0 PSL win against Lamontville Golden Arrows in Durban in their last fixture on November 2.Weekend s PSL matches:Saturday:Mamelodi Sundowns v Kaizer Chiefs (Loftus Versfeld Stadium 3 30pm)Baroka FC v SuperSport United (Peter Mokaba Stadium 3.30pm)Chippa United v Cape Town City (Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium 3.30pm)Orlando Pirates v Free State Stars (Orlando Stadium 6pm)Ajax Cape Town v Maritzburg United (Cape Town Stadium 8.15pm)Platinum Stars v Bidvest Wits (Royal Bafokeng Stadium 8.15pm)Sunday:Bloemfontein Celtic v Polokwane City (Dr Molemela Stadium 3.30pm)Highlands Park v Lamontville Golden Arrows (Makhulong Stadium 3.30pm)