Judge Jody Kollapen was forced to hear a new application within the main application while he had scheduled eight days to hear arguments on who should succeed the church's late spiritual leader .Modise's son Tshepiso brought the application in April this year against 28 elders and youth of the church opposed to his ascension to the throne.He maintained his father chose him to lead the church with over three million members some of whom are outside the borders of South Africa.The new application on Monday concerned a demand that the church as an entity should be joined as a respondent in the matter. The 28 respondents supported this move.Andy Bester a lawyer for the church told the court Modise erred in the first place by not citing the church as a respondent. He argued for postponement of the matter until the church's joinder application was served and heard by the court. There are seven advocates sitting before you not one of them has a mandate from the church Bester told Kollapen. The church is simply not here Bester added. He said the church was a legal entity and therefore has to be part of proceedings more so than the 28 respondents.Modise's lawyer Gerrit Muller insisted the new application made eight months after Modise brought his application was just a calculated attempt to force postponement of arguments.Muller said they cited everyone who claimed to represent the church. He accused the 28 respondents of trying to hijack the church. They have been involved on the matter from day one. For eight months nobody complained [that the church was not cited] said Muller. They have known of this for a long time. It should not be allowed to derail proceedings. Muller reiterated that he will argue that Modise should take over the reins. We say he has been appointed in terms of the constitution [of the church] it was then confirmed when [Glayton Modise] was in hospital in October 2015. Bester rejected that the new application was an attempt to derail proceedings. He said it came as a result of a genuine concern . It serves no purpose to derail matters. Stephen Vivian lawyer for the respondents sided with Bester. The question is that is the church before you no it is not Vivian told Kollapen.He argued it was a deliberate move from Modise not to cite IPHC in the first place. You can't simply cite an executive committee. Our position is that it's not an entity said Vivian.Muller said it now looked like Kollapen would have to set down the matter for April next year.Kollapen will deliver judgment on Tuesday on the application by Bester.