Taking to Twitter only days before his passing, Segale reflected on his ailing health and the pain he was experiencing after losing two of his dearest friends. In the ominous tweet he contemplated whether he would be next to die.Mara health. Does it have to be this painful and one be so helpless? This past week alone I lost 2 friends. Am I next? RIP Mdoo &amp; Ken Modise AldrinSegaleMogotsi (@SegaleMogotsi) November 8, 2016Mara health. Does it have to be this painful and one be so helpless? This past week alone I lost 2 friends. Am I next? RIP Mdoo &amp; Ken ModiseIt was this loss that saw the radio star spiral into a sadness that consumed him, but which he tried hard to hide from his close friends and family."The death of his friends really hit him hard and he was crippled emotionally by it. We saw the tweet and we knew of his loss, but maybe we as a family read too little into the situation. There was never any kind of indication that he was anything but his happy self. He was deceiving. We chatted to him on Friday and at no point was there any indication of his sadness," Mogotsi family spokesperson Sarah Phaweni told TshisaLIVE on Tuesday.She said that the family knew of Segale's ill health and that he had been "managing". But things took a turn for the worst when his younger brother rushed him to Edenvale hospital in Johannesburg on Sunday, with the radio star complaining of extreme and crippling pain.He was admitted. But the hospital called the family a few hours later to tell them that he had died."It was a surprise to us. It was something we never thought we would hear," an emotional Sarah said.Sarah revealed that the Mogotsi family are struggling to deal with their loss."He has four children. They are distraught. His younger brothers are not taking it kindly. His aunt who looked after him is really upset and sad at the moment. The whole family is trying to cope but we have been strengthened by the prayers and support we have received," Sarah added. Find the hottest celebrity and entertainment news on TshisaLIVE or follow TshisaLIVE on Facebook and Twitter.