Bucs who meet SuperSport United in Tuesday night s PSL fixture at Mbombela Stadium in Nelspruit registered their third league draw in succession against Kaizer Chiefs in Saturday s 0-0 Soweto derby at FNB Stadium.That result followed Pirates 2-1 Telkom Knockout first round win against Lamontville Golden Arrows at Orlando Stadium last week.Ertugral began to sound much like his predecessor at Pirates last season Eric Tinkler trying to explain his side s struggles to find a consistent rhythm pointing to his player s poor finishing. How many direct goal chances does this team create week in and week out? Ertugral asked after the goalless derby. We can give these guys fitness levels tactical forms and organisational forms. But one thing that we can t do as coaches is we can t score. So if a team every week created seven to eight 100 percent goal chances which we have every week the job is part done. Now it s up to us in the training sessions to handle our strikers from the positioning and I always say that it s about your body positioning. If Gift had a little bit of an angle instead of being square to the ball that goal would have been in. Unfortunately these are the elements that have been done in the youth systems."This is one of the biggest problems in SA football not the playing patterns but the chances that are missed week in and week out. So I will take the blame that we played a draw. But in the end the players have to put it in. Pirates have winger Luvuyo Memela and playmaker Oupa Manyisa still out with the case of food poisoning that sidelined them from the derby.SuperSport s 2-0 away win against Ajax Cape Town on Saturday was their third victory in a row in all competitions and fifth match unbeaten as Stuart Baxter s men threaten to find some consistency after a stuttering start. I do think we have a little bit of momentum but that is something that doesn t last very long if you don t work on it Baxter said. You ve got to keep refilling the tank and as long as we can do that I think we ll be OK. I think we are showing in every game that the players are playing the way I want them to. But sometimes we become too impatient. I said to the players at halftime against Ajax stop looking for the silver bullet. SuperSport are hoping to have Clayton Daniels Bradley Grobler and Dove Wome back from injury. - TMG Digital