But in SA Coetzee s team also raised eyebrows over its racial makeup.By picking debutant centre Francois Venter and lock Pieter-Steph du Toit on the flank to face England at Twickenham the coach overlooked black players Lionel Mapoe and Teboho Mohoje to accommodate the changes.Coetzee shrugged off some criticism emanating from social media that the team did not show enough commitment to transformation. I selected on the basis of what was best for the team this weekend Coetzee said. It s a process and my intentions are pure and clear."I know where I come from and what we re trying to achieve. Coetzee has a mandate to have a Bok squad that is 50 per cent black by 2019 (and the squad includes coaching and backroom staff) which is still three years away.As part of the process of delivering and meeting that target interim goals have been set and for this year Coetzee s aim was to hit a 35 per cent transformation target.Counting players because of their skin colour is a coarse way of measuring progress but it s the reality of the system that Coetzee operates in.After 10 games which includes last week s non-Test against the Barbarians the Boks have a 32.5 per cent transformation record.The squad for Saturday s Test against England is down to 26 per cent. But as coach he has the latitude to pick and choose as he pleases.England coach Eddie Jones who is Coetzee s friend believes that the Bok coach is the right man to navigate transformation demands successfully."Everyone's got their problems in international coaching. Jones said. Allister has got a unique set of socio-political issues. That is part of the country and he knows he has got to coach to those issues. He's a coloured guy that's come through. He's played Currie Cup in the coloured competition."He's fought his way up to be a coach for the Springboks as an assistant and now as a head coach. He knows what's ahead of him and he's doing a fantastic job."Overall Coetzee is on track to meet the measurements set out but it hasn t stopped some hysterical social media backlash.Mapoe only arrived from Japan on Sunday night while Venter has been in camp with the team for three weeks.The decision to elevate the impressive Venter had sound rugby merit while Du Toit and Willem Alberts in back row tandem has similar rugby value.But it came at a cost to transformation numbers with Mohoje missing out. Internally players are comfortable with the situation and understand the plan.But social media is not a place for rational thinking.Statistically Mapoe s key numbers were slightly better than Venter s in Super Rugby but the former was playing in a winning Lions team while Venter toiled in a struggling Cheetahs outfit.Mapoe is a good player but he has yet to seize a Test and produce a dominant performance.Coetzee only weighed up rugby pros and cons in his decision before opting to give Venter a chance. - TMG Digital