England host the Boks at Twickenham this weekend looking to arrest a 10-year 12-Test winless streak against South Africa.On paper at least the prospects of achieving this objective appear to be very good. England have won nine Tests in a row in 2016 under new coach Eddie Jones while the Boks have struggled as they rebuild under Allister Coetzee with four wins in nine in the same period.All indications are that England s drought will end on Saturday. Youngs who first met the Boks at Ellis Park in 2012 doesn t expect it will be easy though and still has stark memories of his first meeting with SA as a reminder of the task that lies ahead. We were down by 20 points or something [in 2012] but we managed to get ourselves back into the game Youngs recalled. They went on to win the game and that was an indication of what they are like in the first 20 minutes of a game."They get on the front foot and they come hard around the corner. They come at you like a wave. It keeps coming and battering you down. One of the memories I have of that game is that the first quarter was a shock to us."We will put a big emphasis on how we start this weekend."We re playing at home but we haven t played for a while together so we want to come out of the blocks control the ball and make sure we are putting in a big two-man hits in defence. That game in Johannesburg highlights that if you let them get on the front foot early on they can be very difficult to stop. Although much has been made of England s technical improvements under Jones Youngs believes that against SA the vital ingredients of physicality and set-piece superiority are still the most important elements. You can look at all different patterns and plays but ultimately the fundamentals of rugby are getting your set-piece right winning the gain-line and winning the collisions Youngs said. If you are doing that then you get quick ball so you have more time everything is front-foot so it makes it easier as halfbacks."At the weekend it is going to come down to being physical and winning that gain-line battle. We have to make sure from the start that we dominate that area. We feel like the time is now. We have been building towards this ever since we met in Brighton [for their training camp]. We knew this fixture was coming and our only focus has been South Africa. We feel like the time is now to try to get rid of the last ten years and get a win against them this weekend. On the flip side we are fully aware that they will come with confidence because they have beaten us for ten years. We will have a massive emphasis on ourselves and what we are trying to do. - TMG Digital