Saturday s 4-1 victory at the Athlone Stadium over Free State Stars in the Telkom Knockout semifinal could have been even bigger had it not been for wasted chances and the heroics in goal of the visiting keeper Thela Ngobeni.But the Cape Town City coach remained delighted with the result and the way City have marched to the top of the domestic game after seven successive wins. It s been a fantastic campaign and when we started right at the beginning we said that the league would always be our priority."But in the cup I told the players they had a chance to create a legacy and became part of the history of this new club. And they have done that."It was a phenomenal performance we created so many chances. We planned for a 3-5-2 approach from Stars and our planning turned out perfectly said Tinkler. The transition from defence to attack was excellent and we could have had five goals at half-time. It was a bit of a concern that we were only 2-1 up." I told the players at half-time we needed to go out and fix that and put our chances in the back of the net and ended up being a very comfortable win. City went into the game with concern over the centre backs with regular Tshepo Gumede and Robyn Johannes both suspended." They shifted Thamsanqa Mkhize from right back to the middle and alongside him gave a debut to the 21-year-old Joseph Adjei from Ghana. I thought both centre backs did a fantastic job. We have a squad with enough depth I think we ve proved that now. Obviously we don t want to lose key players but we have enough cover."Plus we have a very good team spirit where the players all want to play for each other. Tinkler the former Orlando Pirates coach was disappointed not to see his old club through to the final and set up a reunion with his former players. "It would have been nice to play Pirates 50 000 people in Durban maybe? Instead City will play SuperSport United on December 10 after Pirates were beaten 1-0 in Saturday s other semifinal in Nelspruit.TMG Digital