Magnificent Mndebele a freelance photographer who was at the scene at the time of the shooting was visited between 1am and 2am on Thursday by two officers claiming to be from crime intelligence at his residence in the Johannesburg city centre. The officers confiscated his laptop computer and cellphone. They claimed there were photographs on these devices which may be evidence in the murder case. Police spokesman Capt Xoli Mbele confirmed that the cellphone and laptop were confiscated from Mndebele. He said police took this step to prevent the investigation from being put in jeopardy. Mndebele s attorney Willem de Klerk took the matter up with the police top brass on Thursday morning arguing that Mndebele needed his equipment to prepare for his examinations which start next week. On Thursday afternoon De Klerk said he had received an undertaking from the police that Mndebele s equipment would be returned to him on Friday after police had made copies of the photographs. Police will also take a statement from Mndebele who witnessed the shooting of Kevin Baloyi the second-year BSc Computer Science and Informatics student De Klerk said. Mbele said police were working around the clock to apprehend the killer. Mndebele described to TMG Digital on Monday how the victim and his friends were having a good time when two men one dressed in a security uniform and the other wearing jeans came and chased them as a party was winding down. "They decided to go to the 14th floor to further celebrate because the party at the first floor had just ended. When I got to the 14th floor I found them in an argument with the guy in jeans." Mndebele said the argument moved from a lounge where about five students were asking the "security guard" to leave to a corridor next to a black staircase. "The students were not causing trouble so I can t tell you why he chased them. So they started pushing him asking him to leave and when he left he just shot at someone " charged Mndebele. He said a 9mm bullet casing lay on the staircase after the shot was fired. He added that he knew the student was dead after his friends called his name out a couple of times to no avail. Next to his body lay an overturned glass and a cap. "As [the gunman] left he was not even running. He just walked calmly " Mndebele said. - TMG Digital