After losing seven of 11 Tests this season including their last three in succession Coetzee made 12 changes to the squad that lost in Italy last week in a last desperate effort to stop the rot. Seven are in the starting lineup.The coach has awarded starts to the uncapped trio wing Jamba Ulengo centre Rohan Janse van Rensburg and flank Uzair Cassiem while flank Jean-Luc du Preez could also earn a cap if he comes off the bench.The entire Bok team is callow but the backline is particularly youthful with only 40 Test caps between it while Wales back division has a combined 335 caps.Centre Jamie Roberts who is on the bench has a further 85 caps.Wales have only once gone into a match as favourites against the Boks and that was during their golden years at Cardiff Arms Park in 1970.The match ended 6-6.This is the first time since that the home team can rightfully go into the match as virtual dead certainties for victory. We have a less experienced team but I want to see some energy and an improved performance Coetzee said. Our selection is also keeping in mind of the process and necessity to build towards 2019 Uzair was impressive during our domestic competitions and he was man of the match in the Currie Cup final."He made a good impression during the build-up to the Barbarians match and has continued to work hard on this tour since re-joining us. Jamba Uzair and Rohan are examples of players who have forced their way into the squad through consistently performing well on the domestic scene and during training on tour and now they are getting their opportunities to play for the Boks. Wales stand-in coach Rob Howley is also under pressure after some mediocre performances from his team during November which has seen Wales eke out wins against Argentina and Japan but lose heavily to Australia.The home team also go into the match without leader and world-class openside Sam Warburton who suffered a stinger on the training ground earlier in the week.The accomplished Justin Tipuric comes in as replacement. Warburton is a great player but regardless we have to focus on what we need to do Bok captain Adriaan Strauss who is playing his final Test said. We have lost against ourselves so many times this year so picking out individuals who are playing or not playing or what the conditions are is not going to help us. We need to sort out the breakdown and be efficient in that area. We have to play constructive rugby play in the right areas and then attack with intent. Wales have only ever beaten the Boks twice in 31 clashes but the last time was in Cardiff two years ago.The Springboks if they lose would suffer an eighth defeat in a calendar for the first time in history.If that happens the thread Coetzee s job is hanging by would snap. - TMG Digital