Media pundits scraped the bottom of their barrels of invective to paint supporters of Donald Trump as racist, vulgar and stupid. But it didn't bother the vilified much as they delivered the biggest surprise in US presidential election history.Now his detractors and much of the rest of the world are in a state of disbelief; despair. Britain's Guardian newspaper berated America for voting in a president who is "an unstable bigot, sexual predator and compulsive liar".Trump has dished up plenty of evidence that he is all those repulsive things, but voters in poorer, working-class areas of the US shrugged off the candidate's manifest faults.Interestingly, many people who voted for Trump told exit polls they didn't particularly like the man and worried about calamity in his presidency.But they were determined to send a message, so they gritted teeth and cast their fateful votes. That message is clear: "average" Americans are fed up with a political class that's failed to deliver on election promises over decades. They have had enough of "elites" - both politicians and media commentators - telling them what to think. They distrust slimy deal-making merchants in corridors of power who get rich as "ordinary" folk get poor.Much the same emotion was behind the Brexit vote - politicians were selling people down the river. A new model was needed.Such dramatic overhauls and changes of direction are dangerous and unpredictable.We, too, fear for a future with Trump leading the so-called free world, not because he is a political novice but because his coarse, bumptious manner doesn't command respect or confidence.But the American people have been willing to take the risks in the name of change.Dare we say it, there is a mood abroad in South Africa that echoes what's happening in Britain and America. We happily voted our current political elite into positions of trust, sweeping away the racist filth that went before. But that trust has been betrayed and we have been exploited and discriminated against by an arrogant ruling class in new, venal ways.The political environments are, of course, different in many ways. But the feelings of frustration and anger are just the same.A basket of the righteously indignant?