But the visitors do not have that choice - they have to replace Dale Steyn for the second Test at Bellerive Oval in Hobart which starts on Saturday.Australia are in the same boat what with opening batsman Shaun Marsh ruled out because of a broken finger.The home side s woes could yet deepen depending on the results of the scans Peter Siddle was due to have on Tuesday after complaining of a sore back.The WACA match was Siddle s first Test after he suffered a stress fracture of the back in February.Steyn was invalided out of the series on Friday with a fractured shoulder and looks likely to spend the next six months at least on the sidelines.Despite that catastrophe South Africa delivered one of the most memorable performances in Test history to win by 177 runs.Who needs an XI? Why not send those same 10 brave men into the fray in Tasmania?The prosaic Russell Domingo wasn t about to entertain such flights of fancy: We ve got two options at the moment - Kyle Abbott and Morne Morkel. Morne is coming off a back injury. We ll assess him two days before the Test and make the call on whether he is 100% fit. Kyle Abbott is a consistent solid performer. Then there s Dwaine Pretorius who has been summoned as Steyn s substitute in the squad.But having scored three half-centuries in four innings of franchise first-class cricket season and taken only eight wickets Pretorius clearly is not a like-for-like replacement.Then again neither is Bellerive anything like the WACA. We need to weigh up what type of bowler we want to use in the conditions in Hobart because I think they are different to what they are here. The WACA is renowned for its pace and bounce but Bellerive - where South Africa have never played a Test - tends to reward less emphatic virtues. It s a fascinating series because all three venues have totally different conditions Domingo said. I ve never been to Hobart; I ve heard its cold. The wickets are a little New Zealand-like; a little slower and you re very much dependent on what the weather does in terms of how easy batting is. Adelaide (where the third Test will be played as a day-nighter) is totally new challenge so its three different sets of conditions and you need to think of three different combinations. Morkel assuming he is fit might miss out if bounce is a lesser factor in Hobart.But he was South Africa s most dependable bowler when Steyn missed six of eight Tests through injury last season.Abbott is also reliant on bounce but with a touch of swing and seam thrown in and he claimed 4/40 against the Aussies in a one-day international last month.And at St George s Park no less home to South Africa s most New Zealand-like pitch.Pretorius bowls skiddy away-swingers not the worst skill for a pitch that might have Kiwi characteristics.So South Africa have choices. Making the right one is the hard part. - TMG Sport