But since that double setback, the club have gone 11 games without defeat and Baxter has pronounced, with some satisfaction, that the side are not far from being where he wants them - both in terms of playing personnel and tactical prowess.He has already brought a trophy to the club in May's Nedbank Cup and now has a chance for another cup final appearance in the Telkom Knockout.SuperSport, who sit third in the Premier Soccer League standings, will start as favourites for tomorrow's semifinal against Orlando Pirates because of the 6-1 pasting they handed the Buccaneers at the same venue just three weeks ago in the league.A record-equalling defeat for Pirates precipitated the departure of Muhsin Ertugral after just three months in the job. Veteran Augusto Palacios is back as caretaker - for the fifth time - and has won three in a row since taking over the hot seat, although their 1-0 victory over Chippa United on Tuesday night in Port Elizabeth came with a large dollop of good fortune.Pirates had a scrambling defence to thank for their three points but still look a tad nervy - a result of that six-goal hiding on November 1. It could be a factor again tomorrow.OTHER MATCHESCape Town City v Free State Stars:City are in a second cup semifinal in their first season of existence and are also near the top of the Premier Soccer League standings. This Telkom Knockout semifinal is being played at Athlone Stadium. Stars were last in a cup final in 1999.Espanyol v Leganes: Espanyol have played seven games without defeat but won only three of them and are sitting in the bottom half of the La Liga standings. Leganes beat Osasuna on Monday to end a run of five matches without success.Boavista v Sporting Lisbon:Boavista have not beaten Sporting in their last seven head-to-head meetings. Their last success was in 2008. Sporting lie third in the Portuguese top flight, eight points above eighth-placed Boavista.Sevilla v Valencia:In the head-to-head count between the two Spanish clubs, Valencia lead Sevilla 22-18 with only seven draws in 47 matches. Valencia won their last meeting in April with a 2-1 home triumph.Belenenses v FC Porto:Belenenses have won only four times in 37 previous meetings with Porto, and last beat them in 2002. Porto played midweek in the Uefa Champions League away at FC Copenhagen, where they played out to a goalless draw.