The under-fire coach picked three uncapped players in the starting lineup wing Jamba Ulengo centre Rohan Janse van Rensburg and flank Uzair Cassiem with a fourth looseforward Jean-Luc du Plessis on the bench.Cassiem replaces the injured Willem Alberts who is struggling with a neck injury. If all four uncapped players make it on to the Principality Stadium pitch on Saturday it would take the number of new caps Coetzee has awarded in 2016 to 12.Coetzee has jettisoned 124-cap veteran Bryan Habana 41-cap stalwart Willie le Roux and relegated 55-cap flyhalf Pat Lambie to the bench.It s a clear message that he is looking to the future and breaking from the past. Whether such a callow team has the ability to end a rot that has seen the Boks lose six of their last seven Tests including a chastening 20-18 defeat against Italy last week is questionable.But nothing has worked so far on tour so a new direction is the only way left for Coetzee to go. Coetzee s job hangs by a thread if at all but the coach is determined to go out on his terms if it is to be his last Test in charge. Ulengo brings raw pace and the ability to finish while Van Rensburg s sheer power and ability to drive over the advantage line are exciting prospects.Cassiem is a great ball carrier with a tireless engine who could be at the start of a prosperous Test career.Coetzee also reverted to Faf de Klerk and Elton Jantjies at halfback with Rudy Paige dropping out of the 23 altogether and Piet van Zyl coming in as replacement halfback.Hooker Malcolm Marx is preferred to Bongi Mbonambi on the bench with captain Adriaan Strauss starting his 66th and final Test.He will retire from the international game after this tour. These players have shown a lot of enthusiasm and excitement and thought it was the right time to give them a chance Coetzee said. They have performed in domestic rugby and had a taste against Barbarians."It will test out depth but it is a step in the right direction. It s the right decision in terms of the future of SA Rugby."I back these youngsters and although we will see mistakes I will back them. Elton will take the lead at the back with Francois Venter also helping. Large number of players overseas has become a problem for us and there are another 50 heading overseas before next season so we have to look at picking locally-based players. Springboks: 15-Johan Goosen 14-Ruan Combrinck 13-Francois Venter 12-Rohan Janse van Rensburg 11-Jamba Ulengo 10-Elton Jantjies 9-Faf de Klerk 8-Warren Whiteley 7-Uzair Cassiem 6-Nizaam Carr 5-Lood de Jager 4-Pieter-Steph du Toit 3-Lourens Adriaanse 2-Adriaan Strauss (capt) 1-Tendai Mtawarira.Reserves: 16-Malcolm Marx 17-Steven Kitshoff 18-Trevor Nyakane 19-Franco Mostert 20-Jean-Luc du Preez 21-Piet van Zyl 22-Pat Lambie 23-Lionel Mapoe.- TMG Digital