New Zealand coach Robbie Deans has mixed his side, which is short of A grade international players who are mostly involved in Test matches across the globe this weekend.Former All Black scrumhalf Andy Ellis is about the most famous player in the team that includes a host of quality Super Rugby players such as Hurricanes prop Reggie Goodes and Crusaders centre Seta Tamanivalu.Du Preez, the Lions duo of hooker Akker van der Merwe and lock Martin Muller will start against their fellow countrymen with young Lions flank Ruan Ackermann on the bench.There are seven Test capped players in the match day squad with New Zealand s 2011 World Cup winner Ellis captaining the side.Du Preez s father - also named Robert - won seven caps in the 1990s and is the current Sharks coach. Du Preez junior broke into the Stormers Super Rugby side this year and will get the chance to measure himself against Pat Lambie, who captains South Africa from flyhalf this weekend.This weekend the Barbarians are taking on South Africa for the eighth time since 1952 and lead the series 4-3 after victories in 2007 and 2010.The famous invitation side won 26-20 in 2010 when tries from Australia s Drew Mitchell (2), James O Connor and Italy s Quintin Geldenhuys secured victory.Ellis appeared in that game and understands the unique way the Barbarians combine talented performers from around the globe in the space of a few days before taking on established international teams. It was a pretty special moment beating South Africa last time, Ellis said. "It s a beautiful thing. You make friendships. I m still in touch with the guys I played with in 2010."This new team has come together, we re getting on well and we re having fun and now it s just about fronting up and making sure we perform at the weekend. We understand how proud the Barbarians are and we ve got a real job to do here. "The guys want to play for themselves, for the club, for their families - all sorts of different motivations but we re in a pretty good place. Boks taking on the Boks helps. They ll certainly want to prove themselves."Barbarians: 15 Melani Nanai, 14 Matt Faddes, 13 Seta Tamanivalu, 12 Richard Buckman, 11 Taqele Naiyaravoro, 10 Robert du Preez, 9 Andy Ellis (captain), 8 Luke Whitelock, 7 Jordan Taufua, 6 Brad Shields, 5 Michael Fatialofa, 4 Martin Muller, 3 Paddy Ryan, 2 Armand van der Merwe, 1 Reggie Goodes.Replacements: 16 Andrew Ready, 17 Schalk van der Merwe, 18 Toby Smith, 19 Sam Carter, 20 Ruan Ackermann, 21 Nic Stirzaker, 22 Richard Mo'unga, 23 Luke Morahan.