It has been hard to get his side to focus on the immediate tasks at hand and, consequently, Sundowns have been beaten at home in the league by new boys Cape Town City since returning with the continental crown from Egypt at the end of last month and were dumped out of the Telkom Knockout that they won last season. Sundowns also have had a large contingent of players away on international duty over the past fortnight, leaving little preparation time for one of their key games of the season - against Kaizer Chiefs at Loftus Versfeld tomorrow.While the derby encounter between Chiefs and Orlando Pirates is supposedly the biggest footballing event of the season, the clash between Chiefs and Sundowns usually has more at stake. Over the past four seasons, the two clubs have shared the championship twice, and tomorrow's game is crucial for both in terms of morale and future prospects. It is only the fourth league game of the season for Sundowns, who face a torrid catch-up programme when they come back from Japan. For Chiefs, it is a chance to get back to their winning ways after recent setbacks, including drawing with lowly Baroka and being dumped out of the Telkom Knockout by Free State Stars. Chiefs coach Steve Komphela can ill-afford a beating at the hands of Mosimane's team at a time of mounting pressure and will be hoping tomorrow's hosts remain with their heads somewhat in the clouds.The game is M3 in the weekend's top Soccer 6 pool. Let's look at the other matches:M1 Baroka v SuperSport United: Baroka have not won in their last three outings and sit 10th in the Premier Soccer League standings with two wins from their first eight games. SuperSport are unbeaten in their last 10 matches and one point behind leaders Bidvest Wits.M2 Chippa United v Cape Town City: Chippa were all the rage when they made a bright start to the season, with Dan Malesela's coaching methods coming in for high praise. But they have not posted a victory in their last five fixtures. City have won in their last two away games, against champions Sundowns and Baroka.M4 Orlando Pirates v Free State Stars: Stars have lost only once in their last 10 matches against Pirates, but overall have won only three times in their last 24 meetings against the Sea Robbers. Pirates have lost only once in their last eight matches but the 6-1 loss to SuperSport cost coach Muhsin Ertugral his job. Stars are on a five-match unbeaten run.M5 Ajax Cape Town v Maritzburg United: Maritzburg must overcome a horror record that has seen them win only one league match in the Mother City - a 1-0 victory over Chippa United in 2012. Maritzburg have travelled to Ajax on 10 previous occasions and lost five of those, coming away with five draws.M6 Platinum Stars v Bidvest Wits: An away win in Durban over high-flying Lamontville Golden Arrows in their last game ended Stars' streak of seven matches without success. Wits have won their last three games and sit top of the PSL standings.