Coach Allister Coetzee also opted for lock Pieter-Steph du Toit on the flank while fellow looseforward Willem Alberts makes his first start since Argentina in Buenos Aires in 2015. That means there is no place for Teboho Mohoje who drops out of the 23 altogether with Nizaam Carr providing looseforward cover from the bench. Veteran wing Bryan Habana failed to make enough progress from a knee injury to be considered so the fit-again Ruan Combrinck starts while the recalled JP Pietersen will wear the No 11 jersey.It s Pietersen s first start since the third Test against Ireland in June. Venter who made an impressive first appearance in a Bok jersey against the Barbarians at Wembley last week will form the Boks fifth midfield combination of the season alongside Damian de Allende. The Cheetahs skipper becomes Springbok number 877 and is rewarded for consistent form throughout the season even during Super Rugby when the Cheetahs struggled.He now has a chance to show he can translate that form into the Test arena. Having worked with Francois for the last three weeks I was impressed with his organisational skills and leadership Coetzee said. He s an experienced player having played a lot of Super Rugby with the Bulls and Cheetahs. He also understands the defensive role as well. It s also important for continuity because he played against the Barbarians and he ran with Damian (de Allende is some training sessions last week). Coetzee also explained his looseforward combination after injuries cut a swathe through his openside options. The back row was always going to be a tough challenge with the injuries we ve had Coetzee said. Pieter-Steph has played exceptionally well throughout the season because he has an exceptional work rate. He runs great lines as a good ball carrier and it also boosts our lineout. Warren Whiteley is a good link with the backs and Willem Alberts is experienced and he has played at Twickenham before. He also sometimes plays openside at his club. Nizaam (Carr) is a different type of player because he covers all three positions. That s the best possible side I could pick for this weekend. Springboks 15-Willie le Roux 14-Ruan Combrinck 13-Francois Venter 12-Damian de Allende 11- JP Pietersen 10-Pat Lambie 9-Rudy Paige 8-Warren Whiteley 7-Pieter-Steph du Toit 6-Willem Alberts 5-Lood de Jager 4-Eben Etzebeth 3-Vincent Koch 2-Adriaan Strauss (capt) 1-Tendai Mtawarira. 16-Bongi Mbonambi 17-Steven Kitshoff 18-Lourens Adriaanse 19-Franco Mostert 20-Nizaam Carr 21-Faf de Klerk 22-Johan Goosen 23-Lionel Mapoe. - TMG Digital