That s a promise and it was made unequivocally on Wednesday by Sacha Geere.The 34-year-old mother walked out of the Fat Cactus Caf without paying when her companion did a runner at the weekend. A video clip of the two enjoying drinks at the restaurant went viral earlier in the week.Hell hath no fury like a woman treated to an elaborate meal then abandoned and saddled with a R1 300 restaurant bill. Geere is by all accounts livid.She said on Wednesday that her life had gone for a ball of toast .Celeste Perry co-owner of the Cape Town restaurant turned to social media for help tracking down the two patrons who absconded without paying the bill. These two people spent the afternoon at our restaurant in Gardens on Saturday and ran away without paying their R1 300 bill. Please share! It's not about the money but it is about people knowing about their horrible characters. Let's make them famous #sies she posted alongside video footage of the couple on Facebook.The backlash was swift and vicious as some online commentators adopted a lynch mob mentality and demanded the couple be tracked down and thrown in jail. Geere humiliated by all of the attention presented herself to the restaurant on Tuesday apologised settled the bill and left a tip for the waitress.Now she is on a crusade to hunt down her male companion also using social media and have him arrested.Speaking to TMG Digital on Wednesday she said: It s just disgusting. I ve never in my life been so embarrassed and I really want to find this man I want him to go to jail. She said the video footage which went viral was humiliating. My mom. Oh my word. My grandfather is on Facebook my grandmother is on Facebook. I can t even go outside in the street. It s hectic she said.Giving her side of the story the mother of four who originally hails from Durban said she had known the man whom TMG Digital is not naming for legal reasons for about three weeks via a mutual acquaintance.Explaining how they ended up in the Mexican restaurant on Saturday she said that she had planned to work as a DJ at an event the night before but had been attacked and robbed. The man offered to treat her to a meal the next day to help her get over the ordeal. We had the drinks we were there for quite a while. The food eventually came and he said I m just quickly going to wash my hands . I sat there for 10 minutes thinking he s taking forever to wash his hands she said.Explaining why they appeared to be getting cosy she said: I m actually seeing his friend and that s why I was chilling like that because I m a tomboy and I sit like a guy. But now that has been pulled out of complete context and proportion. Maybe he was drawing money she thought while waiting in the restaurant. Then the penny dropped. The waiter came to me and I just burst into tears. I sat there and said I am in an emotional state and have nothing to give them. They said they were going to phone the cops they took me to the back of the restaurant. After a brief wait she just got up and started walking .She acknowledged that it was wrong to have walked out. I was there and I did walk out. I will take my share of the responsibility. I walked into the restaurant and I paid publically she said.Geere said a friend had spotted her companion partying in town a few hours after the incident. Afterwards he had disappeared off the grid and failed to pitch up for work.Asked about her companion she said: He s smooth and just knows what to say. He loves fashion and cooking and dancing you know. He s definitely one of those Don Juan s. He made me famous I m going to make him infamous she vowed.