It says something for the hunger of Sundowns that having become the first SA club to be crowned African champions in 21 years last month they are already trying hard to wrap their heads around getting their focus back on defending their Premier Soccer League title. The past Fifa international date has given Downs some respite. Sundowns have not played a match since their heartbreaking penalties Telkom Knockout defeat against SuperSport United almost two weeks ago where the Brazilians did everything but score in normal and extra time. The players not on national duty got an extra one day off though also crucial respite from the grind of playing a staggering 12 games including MTN8 and Champions League semifinals and a final in two months and two weeks. Arendse said a refreshed Downs are raring to go ahead of just their fourth PSL match of the season against Chiefs at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday (3.30pm). The break gave us a chance to put our legs up a bit and just to regroup as well. And also to put the disappointment of SuperSport behind us the centreback said on Thursday. And just to say that Listen here this is the league now and we need to push again and forget about the Telkom and Champions League. The players who weren t on international duty got a day off. I think it helped us. And just to get away from that game-to-game situation we were in. And now we re back in it and hungrier because now we want to play again. We ve rested enough and now it s time to play. And I think the guys are ready. They want to be back in the PSL and put Sundowns on top of the log. Sundowns needed the break not just to recoup and regroup but also as they now play five games on successive weekends and in midweek before travelling to Japan for their first fixture of the Fifa Club World Cup on December 11. Arendse does not believe their first two defeat of the season 2-1 in the league against Cape Town City then against SuperSport were signs of fatigue creeping in. The Brazilians appeared to lack some of their normal edge and killer instinct in their inability to put SuperSport away. I wouldn t say it was fatigue. It was just the decision-making in the last third. Because I mean for 120 minutes we were camping in their half the Downs defender said. And now it s vital to get that momentum going and the rhythm going into the World Cup as well. I think once we hit that rhythm the train will be moving again. We need to push ourselves to the top of the log because we re at second-last and that s not where a champion side should be. Sundowns are in second-last place in the PSL with a win draw and a defeat from three games and intimidating backlog to begin making up. - TMG Sport