Food to bases in Mpumalanga Gauteng and Limpopo began running low from Sunday with base commanders ordering troops to return home because they could not be fed.Soldiers who have monies deducted from their salaries were forced to pay for their own transport home. While those who could afford to return home did scores who could not were left both stranded and hungry.The SANDF on Wednesday revealed that a new electronic procurement system had resulted in certain food suppliers being unable to make their deliveries.A soldier who is based in Middelburg in Mpumalanga who cannot be named as he is not authorised to speak to the media said: We were addressed by our section heads on Tuesday and told that there s a food crisis and that we need to go home."We were told that we had to return on Sunday to check if the situation is resolved."The soldier who is from KwaZulu-Natal said he could not return home as he had no money to travel.He said 60 of his colleagues who lived close to the base had managed to return home.The troop said R1 100 was deducted from their salaries for accommodation and food. We have never had such a situation where there has been no food in the base."He said their section head was unable to explain why there was a food shortage."On Tuesday we received meals but on Wednesday we did not get our normal breakfast of tea bread and soft porridge. We had brunch but are still waiting for dinner. TMG Digital has learnt that among the bases affected are those situated in Zeerust Doornkop Middelburg and Mafikeng.The crisis appears for now to have been averted after a meeting was held on Wednesday between the SA National Defence Union and the SANDF.The meeting came after the union issued a letter of demand to the SANDF on Tuesday instructing them to bring the troops back to base and supply them with food.Sandu secretary Pikkie Greeff said the union s lawyers had been in negotiations with the military to resolve the matter.He later tweeted that the SANDF has just capitulate(d). Food has now been delivered to the affected bases. Soldiers are eating. In the letter of demand SANDU said the SANDF was obliged to provide the affected members with sufficient rations .Greeff said soldiers affected would run to hundreds .He criticised government on twitter saying: While our President Zuma is on his way to attend Castro s funeral his soldiers are going hungry. Would Fidel have been proud? In another tweet he criticised SANDF leadership asking what kind of management can t even see to it that their soldiers are properly stocked with food .In a statement SANDF spokesman Colonel Ronald Maseko said the SANDF had experienced low levels of rations at three of its units.He said the affected bases were 2 4 and 21 South African Infantry Battalions."The shortages at 2SAI and 4SAI were resolved. Currently the situation at 21SAI is being addressed with the wet rations being brought to the required levels."Maseko said the shortage was as a result of the introduction of the e-procure system by National Treasury."It is aimed at regulating the supply chain management in Government. The new procurement system requires that all suppliers be centrally registered on National Treasury`s database."This re-registration has led in some instances to some suppliers being unable to deliver or supply the SANDF as per tender contract regulations due to their details as per new regulations being incomplete on the system." TMG Digital/The Times/Cape Newsroom