Du Plessis was fined 100% of his match fee but escaped a ban when match referee Andy Pycroft found after a three-hour hearing in Adelaide on Tuesday that South Africa s captain had broken law 42.3 during the second Test against Australia in Hobart.Television footage had shown Du Plessis polishing the ball after wetting his fingers while a mint - which amounts to a banned artificial substance - was in his mouth.Team management said on Tuesday that Du Plessis planned to appeal which could lead to a tougher punishment.But by Wednesday morning he appeared to have been talked off that ledge. We have advised Faf to reserve his position as regards the match referee s finding and wait for the full reasons of his decision before deciding his next step CSA chief executive Haroon Lorgat said at a press conference in Adelaide on Wednesday.Du Plessis found it difficult to accept Pycroft s decision. I still completely disagree with that Du Plessis said. I felt like I ve done nothing wrong. He drew a distinction between shining the ball and tampering with it. You can look at it as ball-shining versus ball-tampering Du Plessis said. For me if you talk about ball-tampering that s wrong - it s picking the ball it s scratching the ball. He hoped the controversy would prompt change. Shining the ball is something I think all cricketers would say is not in that same space (as tampering). It is something that all cricketers do and I think there will be a lot of emphasis - especially after this incident - on where the game is going what the International Cricket Council is going to do about it. Certainly if I was sitting here and talking about ball-tampering and scratching I would have said to you guys that two wrongs don t make a right. But I don t believe in shining actually as being wrong. It s not like I was trying to cheat or anything - I was shining the ball and I see no problem with that. I question the fact that whether you shine the ball with a sweet in your mouth or whether you don t see the sweet and the sweet is still there I think it s exactly the same thing. ... 90% of the time cricketers have sugary saliva whether we re drinking (energy or soft drinks) eating sweets sucking on jellies our mouths are always full of sugar. It s just such a grey area in the laws of cricket and it s something that will now be looked at. The Australians who have been silent on the issue even as the furore has raged in the media were in Du Plessis corner - and admitted they practice similar tactics. Every team around the world shines the cricket ball their captain Steve Smith said on Wednesday. We ve not come out and said anything about Faf or about how he was shining the ball. We along with every other team around the world shine the ball the same way. Australia and South Africa clash in the third test in Adelaide on Thursday.South Africa have already won the series but they have a chance to become the first team to inflict a 3-0 drubbing on the Australians at home.- TMG Sport