Caption for picture: Blue a boerboel cross breed went missing from his home in Goodwood on Saturday nightHis owner Abie Collins has been searching for the boerboel crossbreed ever since and has offered a reward. Scores of animals go missing every years during Guy Fawkes. Collins said he kept both of his dogs inside for most of Saturday. "We let them out for a loo break in the evening. There were several loud fireworks going off nearby which is when we went to check on them " said Collins from Goodwood in Cape Town. "By this time Blue had broken through a side gate and bolted. This was just after 8pm. We are very worried about him and appreciate any assistance.It's sad that there are so many pets that went missing this weekend because of the illegal use of fireworks in residential areas." The Cape of Good Hope SPCA expects a 15% increase in admissions of animals to their facility as a result of illegal use of fireworks in residential areas. Spokesman Belinda Abraham said it has been a "busier than usual" Guy Fawkes because it fell on Saturday.Abraham also said they expected more lost animals mainly dogs admitted to their premises for several weeks to come. Members of the public often leave lost animals with their nearest vet who in turn take the animals to the SPCA which is based in Grassy Park. For this reason she said they have animals from around Cape Town. Abraham said that because animals' hearing is up to seven times more sensitive than a human's the sound of fireworks being detonated is just too much to handle."To them it might sound like a bomb going off. It can result in lasting trauma " said Abraham. Luckily many animals who have tags are reunited with their owners. Christine Kuch spokesman for the National Council of SPCAs said on Monday: "Frankly we have no idea what the relevance of Guy Fawkes is to South Africa.It fell on 5 November Saturday this year. Yet last night [Sunday] fireworks were being discharged". The City of Cape Town confiscated 1250 boxes of fireworks and 10 distress flares. Officers also issued 23 fines totaling R34 000 for the illegal sale of fireworks. - TMG Digital