Furman has been in form for his club SuperSport United notably in their 6-1 league win over Orlando Pirates then penalties Telkom Knockout victory against Mamelodi Sundowns last week and country.He scored the Bafana s goal in their 1-1 draw against Burkina Faso in their opening World Cup qualifier against Burkina Faso in Ouagadougou last month.Speculation that Furman might be out of Saturday s crucial second match towards Russia 2018 was played down by Safa communications head Dominic Chimhavi on Wednesday. It s a minor injury it s 90 percent that he will play Chimhavi told Times Media.Bafana have one player hopeful and three potentially unavailable from a spate of niggling injuries ahead of Saturday s 2018 World Cup qualifier.Two players have picked up injuries in training since their arrival in camp for the crucial qualifier against a strong Lions of Teranga. Two others arrived with injuries.Bafana team doctor Thulani Ngwenya said on Wednesday the four are central midfielders Andile Jali and Furman left-back Tebogo Langerman and goalkeeper Ronwen Williams. Andile Jali missed the last World Cup qualifier with a quadricep [thigh] muscle injury. However he s here now he s training Ngwenya said. He trained with the team in the morning fully but we are managing him hence he missed the afternoon practice game. But he s fine we re treating him we hope he will be ready. Dean Furman had a ribcage injury from his club match [quarterfinal against Downs] for SuperSport. He never felt it until he came here. We are managing him as well. He didn t train yesterday or today and is currently having a scan at the physio. Ronwen Williams fell badly during training yesterday and had a clavicular [collarbone] injury and he also went for a scan with Dean. Tebogo Langerman pulled his hamstring yesterday afternoon and has also gone for a scan. We will only be in a position to know if they can play once we have the scan results. Bafana ranked 62nd in Fifa s world rankings began their Russia 2018 qualifying campaign with a 1-1 away draw against Burkina Faso. Senegal 32nd started with a 2-0 home win against Cape Verde Islands. - TMG Digital