ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe on Sunday described the former Cuban dictator as a man who had not just left an indelible mark on his own nation s history but also that of the world. Castro had a true sense of service to his people. He did not outsource his historic responsibility to corporate profiteers. He understood the saying that rapacious capital is not in the business of nation building. The importance of Castro in the history of the post-colonial world is monumental because he won the real battle of developing a small island against imperialist domination. Comrade Fidel joins the global pantheon of revolutionary leaders who have passed from this life having left an indelible mark not on just their nation s history but the history of the world. For everyone committed to the ideals of equality of social justice of freedom of the universal brotherhood of man today is the saddest of days Mantashe said in a tribute in the publication ANC Today.ANC stalwart Ahmed Kathrada said that for many in South Africa Castro had and would always symbolise anti-imperialism. His unwavering support for the freedom of South Africa and his stance against the apartheid regime will ensure that his name is recorded in our history books as one of the foremost international supporters of our liberation struggle. Kathrada pointed out that he had the opportunity of accompanying Castro to Robben Island in September 1998 and was struck by both his easy-going nature and the great interest he paid to the history of the prison. In later years I was reminded of the trip on two specific occasions: when Raul Castro and Barack Obama shook hands at the funeral of Fidel s contemporary Nelson Mandela; and when I accompanied the recently released Cuban Five on a similar tour of the Island. The South African National Civic Organisation (SANCO) said that though the world would be poorer without Castro his legacy would live forever and his indomitable spirit would inspire generations to come. We are deeply saddened by the revolutionary icon's death. Like Che Guevara Castro had dedicated his entire life to serving humanity and championed the cause of international solidarity and freedom for the downtrodden and oppressed across the world said SANCO national spokesperson Jabu Mahlangu.Mahlangu described Castro as a gallant fighter who made it his lifetime mission to fight and defeat imperialism colonialism and fascism. He inspired our struggle for liberation and as a true champion of the poor marshalled support for our post-apartheid programmes aimed at improving the health care system eradicating illiteracy as well sharing expertise for the people s housing programmes and changing the lives of our people Mahlangu said.