Matches don t come much more crucial for Bafana than Saturday s 2018 World Cup qualifier against Senegal at Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane.At a press conference in Polokwane on Wednesday Bafana coach Mashaba pleaded for media support which would have been all very well had it not been a plea tinged by veiled and paranoid accusations of perceived press treachery.Mashaba went as far as to suggest his technical team had not received credit for qualifying for the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations.They did a chorus of it from almost all corners.Bafana s coach increased the perception that at 66 he is out of touch with modern football; unable to take legitimate criticism such as for his acknowledged errors not qualifying for Afcon 2017; and out of sync with a world of social media which he pays too much attention to. I know everyone has been talking and saying We are playing against a very strong Senegal and we have never beaten Senegal Mashaba said. Senegal has never beaten us as well. Let s stop playing second fiddle to other people. Let us be proud of ourselves. We are always inviting dead lions as ourselves instead of us projecting ourselves as lions. It s a plea it s not to say we are fighting with you (the media). I d like to stress this point. Bafana hasn t beaten Senegal. Senegal hasn t beaten us as well. So I don t know what makes it difficult and different. Yes we accept they have brought very good players. We have played them three times [under Mashaba]. Twice in the Mandela Challenge we beat them the other one we drew at Ellis Park [in 2002 where Bafana won on penalties]. For the record Bafana have met Senegal seven times with two wins to each side and three draws.Again Mashaba as he had in his disastrous opening draw and defeat of the failed 2017 Afcon qualifying campaign played down the need to research the opposition. And one other thing there s this kind of a question that comes all the time. What do you know about the opposition? To me it s a bit of a dicey question. There s no way we can sit and say We played so and so don t worry about them we ll see them at 3 o clock on the day of the match . We have been watching Senegal. They have played three games recently and won all of them. So we know what to expect from them. Most unfortunately you can plan for someone and on the day of the match they differ. What do you do? Then people start saying You ve got no Plan B . I still want to know what is Plan B? Because you re using the 11 players and you can t use the other 11 players. You can only sub three players. Maybe that is Plan B you must educate me on that. Mashaba hit back at perceived criticisms of the his squad.Though which criticisms the coach was referring to is a mystery as there does not seem to have been any. We are happy with the team we have put up he said. Those who don t believe the doubting Thomases most unfortunately we didn t qualify for Afcon [2017] it has become a big thing in the country. When we qualified for Afcon 2015 having only two months in the technical position nobody gave us glory about it. We re not working for glory. We want to please our people. But we are also asking for fair judgement and comment from the media. It s a tired old scratched record Mashaba is still playing despite advice from all corners including from his supposed enemies in the press and own employers at Safa to stop.- TMG Digital