The Limpopo club have proven themselves hugely adept in cup competitions even while a third-tier side and the numbers around their maiden season in the Premier Soccer League make for interesting reading too.They will fancy their chances of reaching a third cup semifinal in five years too against a City side who have impressed themselves but are under-performing according to coach Eric Tinkler.Baroka can take confidence from the fact that they have already beaten City in Cape Town this season with a 2-1 league victory last month and their ever-confident coach Kgoloko Thobejane says he is sure of another victory. That one it s so simple because we need to go to the semifinals so we are sure about Cape Town City he said. They must come and push us to the semi-finals. We are sure of that one. Baroka are coming off a 0-0 draw with Kaizer Chiefs on Wednesday the first time in 21 games that neither side has scored in a match involving the clubs.In fact only Highlands Park have seen more goals scored in matches they have played this season and Thobejane was left frustrated by his side giving the ball away too cheaply something he will work on for this weekend. This game of football sometimes can kill you because once you create a chance and you can t bury that chance then this is the case. Maybe if we shot we could have converted one he said. You can t create more opportunities when one player is having the ball losing the ball one-two lose the ball. That s why our chances were very limited [against Chiefs]. Once we had the ball we lost the ball. There was both good and bad news from the result for Thobejane. It was just the second time his side has been kept scoreless this season with a 2-0 home loss to Bidvest Wits on September 20 the last time.But it is also just the second time they have managed to keep a clean sheet with Platinum Stars the only other team not to score against them.There is something about the cup competitions that appears to ignite a fire in Baroka though and Thobejane will hope that continues into Saturday.When they played in the Nedbank Cup as a third-tier side in 2011 they beat then top-tier Moroka Swallows and Kaizer Chiefs on their way to the semifinals.And they repeated that feat last season while in the National First Division beating Chippa United Lamontville Golden Arrows and Polokwane City.In fact Baroka have lost just one of their eight games in PSL cup competitions the Nedbank Cup semifinal against SuperSport United [0-2] last season. Their semifinal in 2011 against Black Leopards ended in a 2-2 draw.Tinkler knows his side will be underdogs for the quarterfinal in Polokwane but their 1-0 victory over Bloemfontein Celtic on Wednesday made it back-to-back wins after an away win at Mamelodi Sundowns last weekend. The players feel it is important for us to go there and seek some revenge he said adding they are under no real pressure to get a result as they sit fifth in the league table and have already reached the semifinals of the MTN8 this season. You also go into it with a little bit of ease you have moved onto 14 points [in the league] you are sitting fifth right now in the table but there will definitely be motivation going into that game. - TMG Digital