De Allende produced his best display of the season against England at Twickenham last week after a season of injury and poor form.But his impressive perfomance wasn t enough as the Boks slumped to a 37-21 defeat. In 2015 De Allende was South Africa s most impressive backline player at both Super Rugby and Test level.He made the most offloads in the 2015 Super Rugby season but after sustaining a severe ankle injury in Japan he has struggled to reach those heights again. Playing in Japan did work against me a little De Allende said. After the World Cup I only had four days off before flying out to Japan and starting my season there. I didn t get any rest which was tough on the body but in saying that I really enjoyed my time in Japan and I hope to go back one day. The club Kintetsu Liners looked after me very well but I won t be going back for the next two years. I would benefit from an off-season which is why I won t go back right now. It s been hard and I probably underestimated how tough it would be coming back from a big injury. As I ve progressed through the year I feel a lot more confident and positive than I was during the Rugby Championship. My game is based on confidence and on this tour I feel a lot more relaxed."I was putting too much stress on myself during the Championship. My fitness is better which has helped the confidence. By having more game time I ve got sharper but when I was left out of some Rugby Championships games I deserved it. De Allende should earn his 22nd Test cap when the Boks take on Italy in Florence on Saturday and he should again be paired with Francois Venter.The latter made his Test debut against England last week when the duo formed the Boks fifth centre pairing in 10 Tests this year. The constant changing of personnel at both centre and flyhalf along with a third defensive coach in 2016 has made it difficult for the players to adjust and settle down in their combinations. It s always tough when we re changing 10 12 and 13 every week De Allende said. We need to understand each other a lot better so if we do need to rotate in the future it will become a lot easier. We are all quite new to the system and in terms of guys coming in and out it takes some adjustment. Coach Allister Coetzee will name his team to face Italy on Thursday. - TMG Digital