Three weeks ago Abrahams told South Africa that his prosecutors had "applied their minds to the facts" and "considered all factors" in the charging of Gordhan and former SA Revenue Service top executives Ivan Pillay and Oupa Magashula. But now all the charges against the men have been dropped.They were charged over Gordhan's approval of a decision to grant Pillay early retirement and his rehiring as a consultant.The early retirement involved Pillay getting a R1.1-million payout.In his announcement yesterday Abrahams threw the Hawks under the bus, suggesting the charges would not have been pressed had there been "proper engagement and co-operation" between the accused and the Hawks.Abrahams said the case was blown out of the water by the surfacing of a 2009 legal opinion by SARS director of legal affairs Vlok Symington, who said there was no legal impediment to Pillay's early retirement.The three men were scheduled to appear in court tomorrow.Abrahams said he became aware of the Symington opinion from submissions made by Pillay, Freedom Under Law and the Helen Suzman Foundation on October 17 and October 18."We rely on investigators. If the Hawks submit a docket to us and they say the investigation is complete, it is incumbent on us to analyse the material and to direct further investigations," he said.The Hawks have been reluctant to respond to Abrahams's accusation of a lack of "proper engagement and co-operation"."The decision [to drop the prosecutions] was taken after more information came to light. This is normal process. We accept and respect the decision of [Abrahams]," said Hawks spokesman Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi.Abrahams denied incompetence on his part, but said he would have to "look into whether someone's head must roll".Commentators have suggested that it is his head that should be on the chopping block.Chairmen of the Law Society of SA Mvuzo Notyesi and Jan van Rensburg said they would call on parliament to initiate an investigation into the Hawks' actions, or alternatively for a judicial commission of inquiry to be established."We are gravely disappointed that a matter of such magnitude and implication was decided without first obtaining all necessary information and that the charges were instituted in the first place."They said the about turn by the NPA appeared to be consistent with the perception that it was politically motivated."The society urges Abrahams to consider his position in light of the severe consequences his actions had on our economy."Abrahams seems oblivious to, and unrepentant for, the damage caused by the unsubstantiated charge of fraud against Gordhan."When the charges relate to fraud or theft by a high-profile individual such as the minister of finance, the national director of public prosecutions [Abrahams] should have made doubly certain of the facts before inflicting the trauma he has on the economy, the image of the country and the public," they said.Freedom Under Law said: "We are profoundly disappointed that Abrahams still does not understand the enormity of what the Hawks and his staff have done."The lobby group say there was never any proof of intention to commit a crime."At best, the charges were a colossal blunder."At worst, they were a ham-fisted attempt to loot the Treasury."Criminal law expert Ulrich Roux said Abrahams failed the basic necessity of prosecution."He says he became aware of the [Symington] report only on October 18 but the report has been available since 2014. It is pure incompetence."Wits University law professor James Grant, said: "The crucial question they should have asked, but it was not, was what was Gordhan's intention at the time of his decision to allow Pillay early retirement"Any reasonable prosecutor would have insisted that their investigators investigate thoroughly the basis for Gordhan's decision."Political analyst Steven Friedman said the saga surrounding the charges against Gordhan should be viewed in light of battles within the ruling ANC for the keys to the Treasury."They have failed and will never succeed. There are just too many obstacles, [including] courts that work. ABRAHAMS QUOTES1. "We can always do things better. I will strive to be a better leader."2. "I certainly do not owe anybody an apology. I certainly do not."3. "Am I embarrassed or disappointed? I certainly don't want to answer that question."4. "I am more upbeat than ever about the integrity of the NPA."5. "This is what I call transparency. I'm accounting to you. I'm telling you what I had before me. This is what I decided about what I had before me."