But Saturday s clash between the Springboks and the Barbarians at Wembley (3pm SA time) coming as it does as the first match of the current tour has added significance for the tourists.It s a chance to test some individual players the halfback combination in particular with an eye to more important matches ahead.Coach Allister Coetzee won t find all his answers against the Baabaas because most of his players will return to South Africa but he might find one or two important solutions to pressing issues.The halfbacks of scrumhalf Rudy Paige and Pat Lambie are part of the entire tour which includes Tests against England Italy and Wales in successive weekends.How they fare as a combination Lambie in particular dictates the match in what are expected to be slippery and difficult conditions. It s also vital data for tougher assignments to come.If they come through with polished displays the pair should start against England at Twickenham next week and will be better for their outing.Tactical kicking is a huge attacking weapon if employed correctly and Lambie who also captains the Boks at Wembley believes it s an area of the game where the team will demonstrate improvement. With all respect to the Barbarians we are looking at this game as an opportunity to put a few systems and structures in place Lambie said. We are looking ahead to that next game against England. It would be naive not to. We don t want to defend for the sake of defending; we want to get the ball back. Our kicking is another weapon and it must be used to create more attacking opportunities. There has been a shift in mindset. We are going to take the space before we kick. There has been a big focus on our execution and our kick chase too. Hopefully that will create more chances in the opposition s half. Cheetahs head coach Franco Smith who has joined the Bok management on this tour has done a lot of work on their tactical kicking. Lambie believes it will show on Saturday. Franco and some of the Cheetahs players are coming off a successful Currie Cup and that confidence has rubbed off on the rest of the squad Lambie said. Everybody has enjoyed working with Franco and he has brought in some fresh ideas with regards to the kicking plan. Just as Lambie and Paige are auditioning for starting roles against England next week openside flank Roelof Smit is also on show.The Bulls back rower has a good chance to force his way into the England Test if he can deliver a big performance against the impressive Jordan Taufua in the battle for the ball on the deck.Smit was impressive in the Currie Cup but international rugby is a huge a step up and the Barbarians encounter will give him a chance to show if he can elevate his game even if it is several rungs below what will come at Twickenham next week.The Boks' tight five looks formidable although in hooker Malcolm Marx and lock RG Snyman they are inexperienced. But both were superb at Super Rugby level so this match won t intimidate them.The Barbarians have seven fully capped internationals in the side and are coached by the astute Robbie Deans.They will no doubt have some tactical surprises for the Boks and will ask some tough questions of the Springbok defence which was sub-standard during the recent Rugby Championship.Dangerous centre Seta Tamanivalu could be handful and Taufua is also a powerful ball carrier while Lions hooker Akker van der Merwe will relish the chance of coming up against his provincial teammate Marx.Stormers flyhalf Rob du Preez who will start for the Baabaas also has a chance to show Coetzee that he wouldn t be out of place with the Boks.Barbarians: 15 Melani Nanai 14 Matt Faddes 13 Seta Tamanivalu 12 Richard Buckman 11 Taqele Naiyaravoro 10 Robert du Preez 9 Andy Ellis (captain) 8 Luke Whitelock 7 Jordan Taufua 6 Brad Shields 5 Michael Fatialofa 4 Martin Muller 3 Paddy Ryan 2 Armand van der Merwe 1 Reggie Goodes.Replacements: 16 Andrew Ready 17 Schalk van der Merwe 18 Toby Smith 19 Sam Carter 20 Ruan Ackermann 21 Nic Stirzaker 22 Richard Mo'unga 23 Luke Morahan.South Africa: 15 Jesse Kriel 14 Sergeal Petersen 13 Francois Venter 12 Rohan Janse van Rensburg 11 Jamba Ulengo 10 Patrick Lambie (captain) 9 Rudy Paige 8 Nizaam Carr 7 Teboho Mohoje 6 Roelof Smit 5 Pieter-Steph du Toit 4 RG Snyman 3 Lourens Adriaanse 2 Malcolm Marx 1 Tendai Mtawarira.Replacements: 16 Bongi Mbonambi 17 Lizo Gqoboka 18 Trevor Nyakane 19 Eben Etzebeth 20 Jean-Luc du Preez 21 Piet van Zyl 22 Tiaan Schoeman 23 Ruan Combrinck. - TMG Digital