But he insisted President Jacob Zuma should go. I think that the issue is the message. The veterans are calling respectfully for the president to step down.We really don t see the current NEC (national executive committee) structure taking the initiative to take the organisation forward Msimang told 702 s Xolani Gwala on Tuesday.He said that when the Constitutional Court found that Zuma had failed to uphold the Constitution when he second-guessed the public protector s Nkandla report the leadership of the ANC should have found a way of easing the president out so that the Constitution could be defended. But in particular it would have been very important for an initiative to be taken to let the members of Parliament to find a way of not voting against the Constitution as they did last time around. We are now in a situation in which we say vote with the opposition. I think ANC members should vote with their conscience and the ANC must have courage to allow people to do that Msimang said about the Democratic Alliance s motion of no confidence in the president to be debated in in the National Assembly on Thursday.He said the advancement of the ANC was being hindered by actions that have led to the halving of the ruling party s membership. The results we saw during the local government elections were a humiliation for an organisation like the ANC. Institutions that publicly charge the minister and then decide that we were wrong are not advancing the cause of the revolution. When Nehawu (National Health Education &amp; Allied Workers Union) says the president must go and Numsa (National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa) has left you are talking about an organisation that is really seeing parts move away from it He said the veterans were happy to meet the leadership of the ANC as announced by Mantashe on Tuesday. That is a wonderful thing. That is a small step forward. The issue that is being raised by the veterans is that there is a need to call a national conference to talk about the desperate state of the African National Congress listen to people who have walked the road get the youth to try and steer the way forward for the ANC. TMG Digital 