There was a time when rock music in South Africa was a pretty big deal. It may not have been the biggest fish in the acoustic pond but bands like Fokofpolisiekar and Gangs of Ballet rode high on a wave that was as suburban as it was popular. Since then South African rock music, in its many iterations, has found itself in something of a mid-life crisis.As they release their new album, Form and Function Part 2, The Times caught up with Gangs of Ballet frontman Brad Klynsmith to find out how the band are navigating these choppy waters and whether they preferred Bieber or Mozart.You guys have been on the scene for a while; how has the alternative rock landscape changed since you first started?It's dangerously non-existent. It's been tricky to say the least and we've had to adapt to stay in the scene among all the DJs. But we're going well and still playing all over the place. Luckily we've built a fan base over the past few years and it's growing.Do you think the venues available to see live rock music are dwindling and, if so, how are you dealing with that?Yeah for sure. Durban at the moment has only one venue, the Winston, and it isn't a massive space so we battle to play there. We've had to organise venues ourselves which is pretty risky and a lot of work.With people's musical tastes changing, how are you tinkering your sound to keep up?People still connect with good songs and the relevant element is how you dress those songs up. We've focused on that and then chose our sounds carefully.If you could perform alongside either Justin Bieber or Mozart whom would you choose?Ha, that's tricky. The sheer production of a Bieber show would be inspiring and watching the genius in person would be something that wouldn't ever leave you.What inspired the new EP?Self producing and recording at home in Durban made a big mark on the sound. The whole EP feels lighter and easier to listen to.What was your favourite children's book when you were growing up?Definitely The Jungle Book. I can still see the pictures in my mind.'Form and Function Part 2' is on iTunes