The Boks have lost seven of 11 Tests in 2016 and an eighth defeat would statistically be the worst return in the history of Springbok rugby in a single calendar year. Coetzee is under overwhelming pressure after such a poor return in his first year at the helm of the Springboks and even a win against Wales won t erase what has been a year of lowlights for the team. Strauss who will retire from international rugby following the match says the team aren t focused on winning for reasons beyond their control. We are playing for a whole lot more than the coach s future Strauss said. We are playing for the Springbok jersey it s something I say before every Test match. It s a massive honour to play for South Africa and as a child you grow up with the dream of playing for the Springboks."So we play for more than one cause. We play for people back home to give them hope we play for the coach we play for the team and we play for the guy next to us."It s a massive responsibility and we appreciate and accept it. We have another opportunity this weekend to get it right and although one win won t set everything right after a disappointing year winning is all we can control at the moment and that s what we need to do tomorrow. Strauss said he was aware of the backlash in South Africa after last week s 20-18 loss against Italy which marked a new low point in the season. But he was also not letting the negativity drive the team but rather using positivity to ensure that they are better when they meet Wales for the 32nd time since 1906. The fact the people are annoyed with our results this year is not what s driving us on Strauss said. We are disappointed with ourselves because we know our standards are higher than we ve shown."Every player in this squad is also a Springbok supporter and as South Africans we demand better results and strive to meet higher standards that have been set in the past. We know we are capable of achieving those standards we just need to be better. - TMG Digital