That s how Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane described his party s failed bid to unseat President Jacob Zuma with a motion of no confidence in the National Assembly on Thursday.He said that every member of the ruling African National Congress had a simple choice today: choose Jacob Zuma or choose the future of South Africa . And the ANC proved again that they will always protect corruption and place their own personal interests over the best interests of the country. The ANC cannot be separated from Jacob Zuma Maimane said after the debate.As predicted ANC MPs voted against the motion despite some stirring often scathing arguments from opposition members. The final tally was 214 to 126 with 58 MPs not voting.The office of the ANC s chief whip noted that the motion was based on the public protector s report on alleged state capture yet the report is inconclusive and has made no definitive guilty findings against any implicated individual let alone President Jacob Zuma .As that report has ordered that a judicial commission of inquiry be established the chief whip s statement said to remove a democratically and constitutionally elected President arbitrarily or on the impulses of the DA would blatantly undermine the electoral will of the people .The ANC also said that motions of no confidence have unfortunately become part of the DA s ritualistic political programme added that in the last two and half years alone Parliament has had to entertain seven similar motions .Maimane said of the latest motion: We had sincerely hoped that the ANC would do the right thing vote with their consciences and choose South Africa over Jacob Zuma. But we knew that was unlikely. It was clear from the start that debate would be fiery. Maimane had said earlier that the motion would give parliament an opportunity to give legitimate expression to the overwhelming disapproval of and opposition to President Zuma and his administration .But before the debate could even begin the sitting descended into a heated verbal sparring match between EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu and ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu over whether the ballot could be held in secret.Shivambu called for a secret ballot to be held to avoid any potential victimisation of ANC members who did not vote along party lines. He was promptly told to take his seat because there was no provision in the rules allowing a secret vote.What followed were heckling insults and several interruptions as the argument continued. Why are you afraid of the secret ballot shouted somebody. Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli had his hands full trying to restore order as his requests were ignored.An irritated IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi stood up and asked in disbelief why the deputy speaker was allowing such chaos.While the dispute went back and forth pro-Zuma supporters gathered outside parliament where they were handed ANC t-shirts and boxes of KFC meals.Maimane heckled as he spoke appealed to members of the assembly to find common ground regardless of their political affiliation and put the country first. We are team South Africa he said.He described Zuma as the one man who holds us back from fulfilling the dreams of our people . Let us rise above the differences and put the country first he said.Maimane noted that members of the ANC had spoken out against state capture. I m asking you to take South Africa s side today he said.Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane said that Zuma was president of the country as a result of the will of the people. She referred to Maimane as black face which drew a barrage of objections by the DA.Rising to defend Zuma while being heckled from the DA benches she said that he had acted against corruption by appointing commissions of inquiry and signed 69 proclamations authorising the Special Investigating Unit to rid the state of corruption. The African National Congress is ready to vote we are never shaken we will vote we will oppose this motion she said adding that the party was on a path of self-correction and renewal.Shivambu then rose to describe Zuma as responsible for a post post-colonial disaster in South Africa a country whose government ministers were appointed by the Gupta family.He likened Zuma to dictators such as Idi Amin who stole money on the African continent and eventually resorted to killing their opponents. Jacob Zuma will kill you he said infuriating the ANC benches.He refused to withdraw his comment about the Gupta family appointing ministers or his reference to Zuma being prepared to kill. Buthelezi said the cry for Zuma to step down was echoing from around the country from veterans of the ANC. He said the party was imploding: We have no confidence in the president s moral leadership. United Democratic Movement Bantu Holomisa lashed at ANC MPs for supporting a corrupt leader like Zuma even describing them as wolves."Here they are bumping on their seats like popcorn " Holomisa said ending with a strong IsiXhosa reference to ANC MPs."Ningxola nje masela ndini uyahamba uZuma. Niyathanda anithandi." Loosely translated "You are making noise for nothing. Zuma is going whether you like it or not."The ANC didn't take this lying down. Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane said the DA s motion was a desperate attempt by the opposition party and its allies to "undermine the will of the people... in a quest...to gain power by other means other than the ballot"."The ANC accepted the will of the people and to date the DA and allies are presiding over some municipalities that were led by ANC... They are trying hard to distract the ANC and government led by President Zuma from dealing with poverty unemployment and inequality " said Mokonyane.ACDP leader Rev Kenneth Meshoe backed the motion saying "It is the time for President Zuma to step down and go back to Nkandla to look after his cattle chicken and livestock that he has not had time for because of his travels around the world".In the end it was always going to be a losing battle and the debate ended with EFF MPs firing accusations of vote tigging in response to the length of time it took to tally the votes. - TMG Digital/BusinessLIVE