HHP's rocky relationship with Cassper Nyovest has made headlines over the last few months, but HHP seemed to shut down any rumours of a rift between them by congratulating Cassper on his recent Fill Up Orlando Stadium show.Posting a picture of a near-capacity Orlando Stadium, HHP reflected on how Cassper had grown "from a seed to a full tree" and referred to him as a "king"."Modimo wa makatsa (God is amazing!). Congratulations on an epic second concert. The best. Cassper Nyovest. Psalm 72v15 - long live the king," HHP tweeted.HHP did not perform at the concert as some thought he might. He also didn't perform at Cassper's Fill Up The Dome concert last year.Cassper acknowledged this in an interview with DJ Fresh on 5FM recently but said that it wasn't "a big deal".He said that he tried to reach out to HHP, after reports that the star had tried to commit suicide three times, to offer his support but had not heard from his idol."Jabba is just going through a lot at the moment. I haven't spoken to him. I tried to call him numerous times and I never get to speak to him. I tried but it's very difficult to help when someone is blocking you out or you can't reach them," Cassper said.The Mama I Made it rapper admitted to Anele Mdoda on her show that his success had left his relationship with HHP a bit "blurry".HHP previously questioned Cassper's lifestyle. But Cassper explained that he didn't respond, out of respect for his mentor."Because of the respect I have for him I never responded. I just understood and at the same time I cared. I saw a cry out for recognition. And hurt. He seemed to be going through a lot of things. He didn't only lash out at me. I still haven't spoken to him. I tried... even yesterday. The line doesn't go through. I love Jabba forever because he changed my life. When he took me, no one wanted to touch me... if not for Jabba, I wouldn't be here," he explained. Find the hottest celebrity and entertainment news on TshisaLIVE or follow TshisaLIVE on Facebook and Twitter.