The African National Congress (ANC) welcomed the report put forward saying its recommendations were sound credible and clearly supported by clear evidence including technical submissions made by business labour government and communities. Now that a quantum has been proposed Nedlac constituencies need to have an opportunity to engage with the proposals contained in the report including the proposed level of the national minimum wage spokesman Zizi Kodwa said. The constituencies are urged to proceed with urgency so that finality and certainty can be achieved. The ANC said it was particularly pleased that Nedlac was about to finalise a package which would reduce prolonged and violent strikes.The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) rejected the proposed national minimum wage of R3500 claiming it favoured business at the expense of workers. It was also against the exclusion of domestic workers and farmworkers. The proposal will not lead to the desired resolution of the problem of inequality instead it is going to institutionalise these inequalities at low poverty wages spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said.The EFF had tabled a minimum wage of R4,500 in Parliament based on figures from 2014. Any minimum wage that is below R4,500 will not make any difference to the lives of workers or the resolution of inequality in wages and actual living conditions. Above all wages of South African workers have higher dependency ratio whereby an individual incomes has stretched high and unusual number of dependencies Ndlozi said.The Food and Allied Workers Union (Fawu) which recently announced that it was breaking away from the Congress of SA Trade Unions welcomed that there was finally a national minimum wage but was against the amount of R3500.Fawu proposed that the national minimum wage being R5700. We are concerned that the proposed figure of R3500 seems to be ignorant of or indifferent to this country as the widest unequal society on earth in terms of income distribution and with abnormal poverty and unemployment rate given its stage of economic development and endowment of natural resources and mineral deposits such as 70% of the world s platinum general secretary Katishi Masemola said. Therefore we will push for the national minimum wage to be as low as R5700 a month and for that as Fawu we will not only make submissions but wage campaigns because this country cannot afford to be the case-study of treble-challenges and social ills of only 20% in quality (private) health care selective access to education to the elites (5% of the population) as the those from poor and working class backgrounds and so-called missing-middle are either financially-excluded or even academically-excluded. TMG Digital/BusinessLIVE