Governments have long tried to combat what they perceive as undesirable activities by prohibiting them. Whether it involved drinking, gambling, drugs or prostitution, all that such laws have achieved was to create criminal underworlds engaged in corrupt battles against monstrous police states. The public has never benefited from attempts at prohibitions.On the contrary: every attempt to criminalise these activities has had harmful consequences to public health, economic development, human rights, crime, and the environment.The global war on drugs, endorsed by the United Nations, is 55 years old. But despite the goal to create a drug-free world by 2008, the use of illicit drugs has continued to grow."Far from creating a 'drug-free world', the war on drugs has fuelled the development of the world's largest illegal commodities market," states an economic briefing by Count the Cost, an NGO established in 2011."The prohibitionist global drug control system has effectively abdicated control of a growing and lucrative trade to violent criminal profiteers - at a cost in enforcement terms estimated to be at least $100-billion a year."The recent US election featured nine ballot initiatives to legalise marijuana. Eight passed: only Arizona voted against recreational marijuana use. Notably, California voted in favour of recreational use, signifying a turning point in the battle to decriminalise pot.But the issue of drug legalisation extends far beyond mere weed. The big business of drugs lies in cocaine, heroin, ecstasy and meth.Even people who favour marijuana legalisation balk at decriminalising hard-drug use. Even fewer would permit the sale of hard drugs. Which sounds fair, if you disapprove of hard drug use. The problem is that history isn't on their side.Particularly in the US, this war has filled the prisons with non-violent offenders, although that country's National Institute on Drug Abuse ranks illicit drugs far below both alcohol and tobacco, in terms of costs related to crime, lost productivity and healthcare.According to the Count the Cost project, other unintended costs of the war on drugs are that it undermines international security, fuels conflict, threatens public health, spreads HIV/Aids and hepatitis, undermines human rights, promotes stigma and discrimination, enriches criminals, and wastes billions on ineffective law enforcement.Another NGO, Health Poverty Action, has published a report arguing that the war on drugs not only has failed, but actively harms the world's poorest people.Last week, the British Medical Journal called for the campaign against drug abuse to be turned over to doctors instead of being run by police: "This year a thorough review of the international evidence concluded that governments should decriminalise minor drug offences, strengthen health and social sector approaches, move cautiously towards regulated drug markets where possible, and scientifically evaluate the outcomes to build pragmatic and rational policy."The article cites Portugal as a case in point. Sixteen years ago, it decriminalised the possession for personal use of drugs, from marijuana to heroin and cocaine. Instead of arrests and criminal prosecution, drug users are called before "dissuasion panels" and presented with treatment options. First-time cases are usually suspended. As a result of this policy, drug use has fallen and more users seek help.Portugal's policy is a cautious and limited move, but evidence shows that it is a step in the right direction. It's a first step that other countries ought to take.Given the costs of the war on drugs, and its universal failure, the only people with the motive to continue it are law-enforcement agencies that need the budgets and powers, politicians who want to be seen to be tough on "crime", and criminal cartels who profit from the black market in drugs.If it were up to the public and their healthcare practitioners, society would end the war on drugs. Only when the drug trade is no longer criminal can drug use be treated as the public health problem it really is.If saving thousands of addicts and restricting the flow of money to criminal enterprises isn't enough reason to reconsider our prohibition policies, imagine the amazing economic opportunities for South Africa if marijuana could become a cash crop on a par with sugar and maize.As the late Peter Tosh sang in 1979, "Legalise it, don't criticise it! Legalise it, that's the best thing you can do." - Daily Maverick