"The Simpsons is one of the modern world's greatest cultural artefacts, partly because it is so full of philosophy," according to the course description. "Aristotle, Kant, Marx, Camus and many other great thinkers' ideas are represented in what is arguably the purest of philosophical forms - the comic cartoon."Since it first aired in 1989, The Simpsons has never been afraid to touch on the key issues of the day. Politics, family, relationships, parenting, religion, education - you name it, they've done it. And any glance at Homer's greatest quotes shows that the cartoon's main man has a view on everything from gender equality to fatherhood.Through the medium of Homer's idiocy, The Simpsons has shone a light on some of the most pressing societal issues in the modern world, such as ...LONELINESS AMONG THE ELDERLYThe problem: More than a quarter of people over 65 who live alone are lonely.Homer says: "Old people don't need companionship. They need to be isolated and studied so it can be determined what nutrients they have that might be extracted for our personal use."BEING A MANThe problem: There is a "crisis in modern masculinity", with men failing to cope with personal and professional pressures, according to a report by mental health charity Calm. Phrases like "man up" are commonplace, damaging and blurring our understanding of masculinity and manhood.Homer says: "The code of the school yard, Marge! The rules that teach a boy to be a man. Let's see. Don't tattle. Always make fun of those different from you. Never say anything, unless you're sure everyone feels exactly the same way you do."COPING WITH PRESSUREThe problem: Research from mental health charity Mind found that four in five 18- to 34-year-old men put on a brave face when they are anxious.Homer says: "Just squeeze your rage up into a bitter little ball and release it at an appropriate time, like that day I hit the referee with the whisky bottle."YOUNG PEOPLEThe problem: A controversial one, this, but there is no denying that many young people feel that the future they wanted has been prevented by older generations.Claims of "inter-generational unfairness" are prompted by fears that the younger people are essentially getting turned over by a system that favours older people.Homer says: "I believe that children are our future. Unless we stop them now."DIVERSITYThe problem: Hate crimes against ethnic minorities in the UK leapt by more than 40% in the month following the Brexit referendum.Across the pond, a man described as "the most racist presidential candidate since before the US's civil rights movement" was elected to be the leader of the free world.Homer says: "Just blame it on the guy who doesn't speak English. Ahh, Tibor, how many times you have saved my butt."See also: "I'm a white male, age 18 to 49. Everyone listens to me, no matter how dumb my suggestions are."POLITICSThe problem: We are so far beyond telling the truth in politics that Oxford Dictionaries has announced a word of the year: "post-truth".The word, which follows in the wake of Brexit and Trump's victory, is defined as "relating to or denoting circumstances in which objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than appeals to emotion and personal belief".Homer says: "People can come up with statistics to prove anything - 14% of all people know that."WORKING LIFEThe problem: It was warned last year that a slump in UK productivity over the summer months could cost the private sector 8-billion each year.The price of laziness is not to be sniffed at.Homer says: "Lisa, if you don't like your job don't strike. Just go in every day and do it really half-assed."See also: "I want to share the three little sentences that will get you through life."Number one: Cover for me."Number two: Oh, good idea, boss!"Number three: It was like that when I got here."FATHERHOODThe problem: Piling pressure on children can be both debilitating and damaging.Two years ago the Lancashire Football Association launched an initiative that urged parents to not shout or communicate with their children while they were playing football, with welfare officer Neil Yates saying he recently watched an under-nine game where a child was reduced to tears by "baying parents".When sporting success can be a ticket to riches and a new life for the entire family, it's no surprise that the pressure can become a little overbearing (just watch the US documentary Trophy Kids), but quite clearly this is not going to help the poor child.Indeed, a 2014 study by researchers at the University of Colorado showed that making children take part in structured activities like football training or music practice hinders their ability to set and reach goals.Homer says: "OK, son. Just remember to have fun out there today. And if you lose, I'll kill you."MARRIAGEThe problem: Figures released earlier this month showed that women do 60% more unpaid household work than men. Women still spend twice as much time in the kitchen as men, and around two hours more per week on laundry, despite the rise of the supposed "new man".Homer says: "Marge, I'm going to miss you so much. And it's not just the sex. It's also the food preparation." - The Daily Telegraph