This even for a tough Premier Soccer League match like Wednesday night s at Loftus Versfeld where the Brazilians host Clinton Larsen s third-placed in-form Lamontville Golden Arrows.Castro made his return from an ankle injury with his first match of the season coming on for the last 20 minutes of Downs more than effective 2-1 dismissal of Kaizer Chiefs at Loftus on Saturday.Vilakazi scored his second goal for his new club in perhaps his most confident performance in a Sundowns jersey in his eighth league and cup start.It was perhaps about a 70 percent version of the Vilakazi at his best that South African fans remember from when he was crowned PSL player of the season in 2013-14 for Bidvest Wits taking on defenders and linking well with Downs deadly frontline.Downs 26-year-old Bafana Bafana forward said last week that he and fellow signings such as Morena and Lucky Mohomi are slowly fitting into Pitso Mosimane s winning machine. So far given the opportunity I ve enjoyed the playing time. The important thing is to give to the team Vilakazi said. Working with my teammates and being able to work as a team I think so far I ve been able to give that. It comes down to the team. If the team are doing well I m happy with it. This is a side that has so many players with quality. When given the opportunity you have to take it. Sundowns had a slow start [in the league]. But with the games we are going to be playing now and the focus being back on the PSL it s about grinding results. It says something for the admiration that Mosimane has for Vilakazi that even in a teething period for the new player when the forward has played the coach has always started him.The timing of Castro s return coinciding with Sundowns needing fresh momentum turning their attention back to domestic football from the high of last month s Champions League final victory over Zamalek could not have been better for the Brazilians. It gives us a different dimension having him as well. And not just an extra player but a very good player Vilakazi said.Morena Downs wing signing from Bloemfontein Celtic has started the Brazilians last two games at right-back.Arrows have remained on the Highveld following their 1-0 win against Highlands Park at Makhulong Stadium on Sunday.That result saw Abafana Bes thende bounce back from just a second league defeat of the season at home to Platinum Stars. - TMG Digital