Despite being dismissed for 242 in their first innings and losing Dale Steyn to a broken shoulder after he had bowled only 12.4 overs in Australia s reply in which they conceded 166 runs before they took a wicket the visitors found ways to earn one of the most dramatic victories in Test history.Among them was clear superiority in one of cricket s less obvious more subtle skills: reverse swing.That can happen once the ball ages and one side becomes rougher than the other.But achieving reverse swing is less an accident and more about managing the ball appropriately.Teams are permitted to shine one side of the ball and allow the other to scuff from normal wear and tear.They can accelerate the process by ensuring their throws from the outfield land on the wicket table or the pitch itself which are more abrasive than the grassier deep. There are ways you can try and exploit it when you re out there fielding Dean Elgar said on Thursday.But Elgar denied the South Africans had crossed any lines in cricket s laws. It s definitely not a deliberate tactic of us trying to land the ball he said. When you re on the boundary there are rules that you are allowed to bounce a ball in. All teams around the world use that tactic these days."You are allowed to use it to your advantage and all teams are welcome to do it."But obviously within the rules and regulations of the game. The South Africans skill in the reverse swing department caught the Aussies attention and made them resolve to up this part of their game. They got it going pretty well in both innings which is quite rare in Perth fast bowler Josh Hazlewood said on Thursday. We tried our best to get it going and the bowlers usually can if conditions suit. It was frustrating only getting a little bit of movement here and there. Their ball seemed to keep its hardness for a lot longer and ours got that soft feel about it and became a bit tennis ball-like. The bowling department has a few things to work on especially around the ball. Did Hazlewood think South Africa s adeptness at reverse swing was a happy accident or the outcome of a deliberate process? A bit of both maybe he said. They re a well-drilled unit with the reversing ball and they bowled in great areas with it."It s frustrating but we ll keep working on it and try and get it going. They re (getting) that side nice and rough and the other one shiny. We ll continue to work on it and have a meeting about it and see what works. But preparing a ball to reverse swing is one thing. Exploiting what that ball has to offer is another. For a bowler to be able to bowl with the reversing ball is a massive skill Elgar said. We re fortunate if that most if not all of our bowlers can bowl with the reversing ball which works in our favour quite nicely. Whether either team will be able to achieve reverse swing in the second Test which starts on Saturday at Bellerive Oval in Hobart is open to question.Dry conditions are needed for balls to become scuffed and up to 40 millimetres of rain has been forecast for Saturday with more rain scheduled for Sunday and Monday. - TMG Digital