Addressing a crowd in Newcastle on Monday after appearing in court for contravening the Riotous Assemblies Act Malema said: They found peaceful Africans here. They killed them! They slaughtered them like animals! We are not calling for the slaughter of white people at least for now . Malema also said: The people who belong to the court is (sic) FW de Klerk and all those whites who stole our land. But white minorities be warned we will take our land. It doesn t matter how The land will be taken by whatever means necessary . The foundation said Malema s statements should not be dismissed as the rantings of an infantile political leader. It said Malema's statements were a repudiation of the core values on which the Constitution was founded including human dignity the achievement of equality and the advancement of human rights and freedoms and non-racialism. It is also a direct contravention of section 16(2) of the Constitution which prohibits propaganda for war; incitement of imminent violence; or advocacy of hatred that is based on race ethnicity gender or religion and that constitutes incitement to cause harm . The foundation said Malema s statements should not be viewed in the same class as the racist comments generated by private citizens in the social media. He is the leader of the third largest party in Parliament and his racist comments reflect the considered policy of his party. They hold the threat of racial conflict that would destroy our constitutional democracy and leave South Africa in ruins. The foundation said Malema s assertion that whites with former president FW de Klerk in the lead stole the land of the black majority was not only a serious historical fallacy but also an extremely dangerous idea. It is at the least stirring up racial polarisation and tension and at the most creating a dangerous creation of otherness which in Germany and Rwanda led to large-scale genocide. The foundation said Malema s statements were an attack on the whole of the post-1994 dispensation. It ruptures the fibre of our constitutional democracy and a free and non-racial South Africa. - TMG Digital