Fans have deserted Chiefs in droves having now gone six matches in a row without a win being held to a 1-1 draw at home at FNB Stadium by high-flying Cape Town City. Amakhosi were down to 10 men for a full hour of the game.Komphela was again abused as he left the pitch. The coach chose his words carefully after the game as reporters asked him about the unruly fans . I have to be careful how I answer when you use the word unruly. I don t want it reported I used that word about the supporters he said first. It s very important to accept the realities of modern life and I m sure I m not the first person who there has been made some submissions made about not only in sports but politics too. But all I can do is tell you I have a job to do I have a responsibility. If you look at the match against Cape Town City and listen to what Eric Tinkler said afterwards and you go back to [the game before that] against SuperSport and listen to what Stuart Baxter had to say it s the same story. Both were draws. But we should have won both matches Komphela insisted.Komphela appears to have a short memory because Baxter in fact bemoaned the fact that SuperSport could not beat Chiefs in a 1-1 draw despite having most of the game and not the other way round.On Tuesday Chiefs took an early lead and had two gilt-edged chances after Michelle Katsvairo s goal to extend their lead and be comfortably ahead at half time.But in the end down to 10 men after Sibusiso Khumalo s sending-off they were defending furiously to hang onto just one point. I can hear what s happening [among the fans] but I have to be strong because I have a job to do. Komphela said he still had the backing of the Motaung family. At Naturena there is always support. They understand the challenge we are going through because this club is all about results. I do enjoy that support he said.Club football manager Bobby Motaung told supporters in Mooi River at the weekend where former Chiefs midfielder Petrus Ten-Ten Nzimande was buried that supporters must be patient and Komphela be allowed the same time as predecessors Baxter and Muhsin Ertugral were afforded. TMG Sport