Gupta also said he met Cooperative Finance Minister only once before he became a minister in December last year.These answers are contained in an interview Gupta did with the host of the Midday Report on 702 on February 16 this year Stephen Grootes.Grootes had received an email from public relations and communications company Bell Pottinger with a promise that the interview would be released after a slight edit .The interview which was an hour long was released on Sunday with only 23 minutes of the interview being published.In the wide-ranging interview Grootes asked Gupta whether Zwane flew with the Gupta family to Switzerland. That is absolutely rubbish. No family member flew anywhere Gupta said.When Grootes asked Gupta whether Zwane went to Switzerland to help the Gupta family negotiate with Glencore Gupta replied: Zwane not with anybody of our company and not with a family member flew to Switzerland. If his spokesman confirms he flew with us he is lying. In the State of Capture report published earlier this month the Public Protector said it had information from an independent source that Zwane did meet Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg in Zurich around November 30 2015 to December 5 2015. The other individual present during said meeting/s was Mr Rajesh (Tony) Gupta and Mr (Salim) Essa the report from the public protector said.Essa is the sole director of Elgasolve a company which owns 21.5% of Tegeta Exploration &amp; Resources.Gupta also said it was not important whether or not he knew Van Rooyen I have never seen him before he became minister Gupta said.Gupta said one of his colleagues reminded him that Gupta s delegation had once seen him in one of the meetings where he was standing next to Mr Kebby . My question still stands. Nothing wrong. Everybody meets with ministers and they are right. And if Guptas meet with the minister or anybody they are wrong. Why? What is the reason that Guptas has been targeted or the family has been targeted. What is the reason behind it Gupta said.Gupta also said the relationship his family had with President Jacob Zuma was like all the business community had with any president.He also said the Gupta family never asked the president to do things for his family. Having a relationship is not an issue but whether he is doing something for us is the most important for everyone. I can say categorically we never asked him to everything for us. We never asked. Gupta also denied claims that he and his family would call up a minister and tell that minister what to do. Not true at all. I can say very categorically not true. When asked about the controversial landing of a plane carrying Gupta wedding guests at the Waterkloof Airforce Base and that his family suffered no significant consequences Gupta said he believed the processes were followed. No aircraft can land without permission and with over 240 guests can land. If this aircraft comes without permission it could be shot in the air. I believe all processes has been followed. Gupta said the landing had nothing to do with the president.Gupta also answered questions about Zuma s son Duduzane s involvement in the business of which the Gupta family and Duduzane were directors.When asked if the Gupta companies would be as successful without Duduzane as director Gupta said the companies might be doing much better. We might be doing much better. We have been targeted. We are not getting a benefit of this. We are in effect in a tough environment. -TMG Digital