SuperSport made big signings in the off-season the list was long and impressive and included Onismor Bhasera Rewneilwe Letsholonyane Cole Alexander Thabo Mnyamane and to cap them all Tefu Mashamaite.When Matsatsantsa started the season patchily though there was an initial scepticism as to their prospects for 2016-17.There were too many journeymen and veterans in their squad people said and the club were trying to replicate coach Stuart Baxter s success at Kaizer Chiefs buying Amakhosi veterans which was doomed for failure.After four victories in a row and six matches unbeaten in league and cup matches a quiet progression to second place in the PSL and of course Tuesday night s momentous 6-1 league thrashing of Orlando Pirates in Nelspruit suddenly SuperSport are being viewed in a new light again.Captain Furman said SuperSport are aware of the need to keep their feet on the ground after a high like Tuesday s goal-fest at Mbombela Stadium that ended with a fine celebration in the change-room. One of the lessons I ve experienced in my career is not to get too high with the highs because then you re going to get too low with the lows Furman said. We enjoyed it the other night. We had a nice moment in the dressing room afterwards. It was great to get such a convincing victory against one of the top sides in the country. But it s three points whether it s 1-0 or 6-1 it s three points. We got the job done we did what we had to do and it s finished now. And it s important now to get our focus onto a very tough game against Sundowns. Furman though did admit the result has given SuperSport impetus and confidence. It was only a few weeks ago that one of you guys [the press] was telling me that we re a struggling side. So it shows you how quickly it can change he said. We don t want to get carried away. But no matter what anyone says we know what we ve got inside our squad. We ll go about our business quietly no-one has to talk about us. You don t have to big us up in any way. We know what we ve got in our dressing room. The focus of the squad the determination the will to improve and win and be successful is one of the strongest I ve ever seen. And definitely in my year-and-a-half at this club so far we re certainly in a mental place where we re fully focused and a hundred percent together. And it s a great squad to be in at the moment. TMG Digital/TMG Sport