Gauteng Judge President Dunstan Mlambo together with Deputy Judge President Phineas Mojapelo and Judge Sawie Fourie spent Tuesday hearing a number of applications from opposition political parties which want to intervene.They seek an order compelling the release of the report. Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Des van Rooyen also launched another application to stop the release of the report insofar as it relates to him. Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor also wants to intervene for the release of the report. When former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela planned to release her report on her last day in office on October 14 Zuma and Van Rooyen launched urgent bids to prevent its release. The applications by Zuma and Van Rooyen could not be heard on October 14 because a number of opposition political parties sought to intervene in the applications. The political parties wanted the court to compel the release of the report. While the applications were postponed until today (November 1) Van Rooyen withdrew his application on October 21 after he said he had been informed there were no adverse findings against him. aHowever Van Rooyen launched an urgent application on Monday seeking to stop the release of the report. Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane also launched an application to stop the release of the report. However Zwane s counsel Rafik Bhana SC who was present in court said the matter had been set down to be heard next week and he did not think it was ripe for hearing. Van Rooyen s counsel Stephan du Toit SC had earlier opposed the applications by the Economic Freedom Fighters the Congress of the People and the United Democratic Movement to intervene but conceded that the Democratic Alliance could intervene as it was the complainant which led to Madonsela initiating an investigation in March. The investigation concerned an investigation into complaints regarding alleged improper and unethical conduct by President Jacob Zuma or any other persons related to an alleged improper relationship with the Gupta family. - TMG Digital