It all started on Monday when Rio Olympics medalists launched a scathing attack on Mbalula on social media following his failure to pay her a R70 000 bonus he had promised to pay all the Rio Olympics medalists. Mbalula and the javelin thrower went back and forth with Mbalula claiming in a conversation posted by Viljoen that she was not paid because she had previously indicated that she did not need the money.Never, ever uttered these words. This is how you are treated for winning an Olympic medal. What a total disgrace. Always doing it on my own. pic.twitter.com/NFmSIqzgyDBut Mr Rasmatazz seemed to have followed up on his promise by Saturday morning and paid Viljoen.Received the R70k this morning. It pays to be a fighter. I really never asked for anything other than a promise to be kept. #paidthemoneyHowever it was not all hunky-dory as Mbalula launched yet another attack against the medalist soon after she posted news of her excitement.You didn't have to fight - you had to wait for the process to unfollow. Your impatience wanted us to bypass them for your expedience. https://t.co/fd48YAue9eMbalulu followed this with: Unfortunately, gov is not M-pesa, you don't just Press SEND.There are process -you demanded money same day of the promised - ignored process https://t.co/fd48YAue9e RSA Min of Sport (@MbalulaFikile) November 12, 2016 Unfortunately, gov is not M-pesa, you don't just Press SEND.There are process -you demanded money same day of the promised - ignored process https://t.co/fd48YAue9eArrogance comes in different forms - the idea that you have to be given special treatment and process must be ignored because you demand so.You must choose if you want to be both an athlete and a politician. Then you can wield your privilege however you want. https://t.co/fd48YAue9eThe minister went as far as saying the athlete turned down an invitation to attend the South African sports awards because she was not nominated."Next thing she will come here on Twitter and claim she she as not invited [sic] when she was - and refused to come because 'I'm not nominated' " he said.