But be careful what you celebrate and the company you keep when you pop the champagne.There are, of course, a few things you can celebrate without reservation. There's the fact that Pravin Gordhan, by all accounts an honourable man with no blemish against his name, has outwitted the Guptarites.And there's the fact that what the ratings agencies describe (don't they always have the most charming turn of phrase?) as "institutional resilience" has demonstrated itself once more.It turns out that President Jacob Zuma and his friends miscalculated - you can't stitch someone up in the courts for political reasons. For now, anyway.But as you celebrate these demonstrations that good is winning out over evil, beware the politicians who might be cheering loudly at your side.Some of them were, until recently, avid supporters of Zuma and his empire of state capture. Some said they would kill for him. Some gloated that he was an "unstoppable tsunami".Some were capturing the state for themselves when they were rudely interrupted by the Guptas - foreigners to boot! - who took the loot away from right under their noses.Some were bending the criminal justice system to their ends until the Zuma dispensation aimed it back at them.Some supported the great closing of the South African mind that was initiated by former President Thabo Mbeki, who ruled with smouldering intolerance of criticism.Some defended Zuma in parliament, wrestling its mandate to hold the executive accountable to the ground where it was mercilessly kicked by the steel toecaps of the party hacks.Of course all these species of politician are latterly reinvented as iron-willed defenders of the constitution, protectors of the public against the ravages of state capture and upholders of the founding freedoms.They fall over themselves to denounce, with religious intensity, the evils of the Zuma administration's malfeasance. It's not surprising, really. There's a lot of material there, as the comedians would put it.So celebrate. But keep it to yourself and be very careful that you do not lend legitimacy to the poorly disguised hyenas waiting to feed on Zuma's leftovers.