Newly capped Springbok centre Francois Venter has challenged his teammates and by extension the Bok coaching staff to be more ambitious on attack in the coming weeks.The Boks limped out in London on Sunday on their way to Florence for next Saturday s Test against Italy with more confusion than when they arrived.There appears to be a disconnect between the players and the coaching staff around the gameplan which was also evident on the field during their 37-21 loss to England at Twickenham.A territorial set piece-dominated kicking game appears to be what coach Allister Coetzee was after and yet some of the play seemed to counter that plan.The Boks despite picking three locks with Pieter-Steph du Toit at flank did not contest one England lineout ball.And an organised chase line did not back up their kicking game.Only late in the game when the outcome was inevitable did the Boks attempt to run at England and it drew rewards with two late tries for Johan Goosen and Willie le Roux.But it was more off the cuff with the ambitious Goosen s introduction and guidance than a well formulated gameplan.Goosen s strike was the first Test try the Boks had scored since they lost 41-13 to the All Blacks in September. It took 280 minutes of Test rugby between tries.Afterwards debutant centre Venter hinted that the way the Boks ended the encounter was more in line with how they should have played. We must take some positives from the way we finished the match Venter said. We didn t play any rugby in the first half we only received kicks and kicked back at them. When we started playing with the ball we got results and scored two tries in the last 20 minutes. We need to get confidence with the ball in hand and start trusting our abilities. We are just trying to play a pressure game but we have the talent to play with the ball in hand."They came out and did played with the ball and got the results. We didn t execute properly keep the ball or get into the right attacking zones enough. Everybody must own up and put pride back into SA Rugby. We need a win [against Italy] because when you start winning you start building a bond and trust and confidence from one another."The heart is there it s all there we just need to start playing as a team. Coetzee has some big decisions to make this week because clarity is lacking.Unlike England who have a clear idea of what they are trying to do and how they are going to play to get there the Boks vision is more of a mirage than a blueprint.The coach was out of excuses afterwards. We are our own worst enemies because we didn t handle the contestable kicks well and that led to points against us at crucial times Coetzee said while offering no reasons for why the Boks couldn t handle contestable kicks. Defensively we made two blunders and it cost us two tries but we they are things we can fix."It is frustrating and as a collective we re not happy but we just have to keep working on it. Venter despite being a newcomer to the Test arena was more honest in his assessment of the defeat which is the Boks sixth in 10 Tests this year. The match was actually a bit slower than I expected which was because it was more of a kicking duel early on Venter said. But there was a lot of pressure. England applied pressure and converted it into points. There is a lot of work for us to because we were average in a lot of areas. Our set piece was great and put them under pressure but we couldn't handle the pressure of their contestable kicks. They had a bit of luck with the bounce of the ball but our first phase defence let us down too. Their first try was an error by us backs. We are working hard though and we will try to end on high with the two remaining Tests. - TMG Digital