This is according to a tweet on the official Bafana Bafana Twitter page.The move stands contrary to earlier assertions by national team management to Times Media that Furman had only received a minor injury and was 90 percent certain to meet Senegal at Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane. Tebogo Langerman &amp; Dean Furman have been released from the Bafana squad after picking up injuries. Replacements to follow the Bafana Bafana page tweeted.Furman has been in form for club SuperSport United notably in their 6-1 league win over Orlando Pirates then penalties Telkom Knockout victory against Mamelodi Sundowns last week and country.He scored Bafana s goal in their 1-1 draw against Burkina Faso in their opening World Cup qualifier against Burkina Faso in Ouagadougou last month.Furman and Langerman were two of four niggling injuries ahead of Saturday s Russia 2018 qualifier.Two picked up injuries in training since their arrival in camp for the crucial match against a strong Lions of Teranga.Two others arrived with injuries.Bafana team doctor Thulani Ngwenya said on Wednesday that central midfielder Andile Jali is being treated but should start against Senegal while goalkeeper Ronwen Williams was to have a scan along with Furman and Langerman. Andile Jali missed the last World Cup qualifier with a quadricep [thigh] muscle injury. However he s here now he s training Ngwenya said. He trained with the team in the morning fully yesterday but we are managing him hence he missed the afternoon practice game. But he s fine we re treating him we hope he will be ready. Dean Furman had a ribcage injury from his club match [quarterfinal against Downs] for SuperSport. He never felt it until he came here. Ronwen Williams fell badly during training yesterday and had a clavicular [collarbone] injury. Tebogo Langerman pulled his hamstring yesterday afternoon. Bafana ranked 62nd in Fifa s world rankings began their Russia 2018 qualifying campaign with a 1-1 away draw against Burkina Faso. Senegal 32nd started with a 2-0 home win against Cape Verde Islands. - TMG Digital