The minister began the week hearing that his fraud rap was being abandoned.The letter the Treasury published on Friday coincided with the National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams answering questions in parliament about his decision to charge then withdraw the case against Gordhan. Abrahams announced on Monday that he will not prosecute Gordhan Oupa Magashula and Ivan Pillay on corruption charges related to an incident that occurred during their tenure at the South African Revenue Services.Gordhan's letter was also read out earlier this week at an assembly of politicians civic leaders and businesspeople in Pretoria which his family attended although the minister did not make an appearance.The letter reads:"On behalf of my family and myself I wish to thank fellow South Africans from all walks of life and organisations who have provided us with active support and continue to do so. We are humbled."Like many I am a son of the congress movement the African National Congress and the congress alliance. I was taught the values of democracy and social justice in the Freedom Charter.The Preamble of our Constitution calls on all of us to: Heal the divisions of the past and establish a society based on democratic values social justice and fundamental human rights and Lay the foundations for a democratic and open society in which government is based on the will of the people and every citizen is equally protected by law We have made tremendous progress in all aspects as a young democracy. But we have much more to do in unity.Hope resilience and active involvement will enable us to overcome poverty unemployment and inequality and any form of injustice and unfairness. Ours is the formidable task of inclusively transforming our economy - providing jobs and skills for our youth opportunities for entrepreneurs and a decent and dignified life to all South Africans.President Nelson Mandela reminds us I dare not linger for my long walk is not yet ended. Once again our most sincere and deepest appreciation for your active support. Ke a leboga. Ke a leboha. Ngiyabonga. Enkosi. Ngiyathokoza. Dankie."The letter is signed: "Pravin Gordhan and family".