I had sent my own six-year-old daughter off to sleep on Tuesday evening with the suggestion that she could wake the next morning to the election of the first female US president. On Wednesday morning, I had to tell her the news that Hillary Clinton had lost to a man. Of course, I didn't tell her that it was a man who had boasted about groping women and all the other details too lurid for a child to hear.Amid the despair at Trump's victory among feminists and Clinton supporters, there is a danger that another woman is being dragged down in defence of their heroine: the next first lady, Melania Trump. From her childhood in Yugoslavia, to learning five languages as she worked around Europe as a model, to moving to New York, until now, as she prepares to take up residence in the White House, hers is an extraordinary story.As a woman and an immigrant, she should find support among Clinton's supporters and the liberal-minded both in the US and abroad. Yet, during the campaign there was an undercurrent of sexism and xenophobia towards her that has only intensified since her husband's victory. This hypocrisy, where it is suddenly okay to poke fun at a Slovenian for the way she speaks, at an ex-glamour model for the way she looks, is staggering.On social media and chat shows there has been sneering about her posing topless, an assumption that she is an unintelligent bimbo afraid to challenge her domineering husband.There are the unfair comparisons to the Harvard-educated Michelle Obama, as though Melania Trump is academically unqualified to be first lady.Trump's admiration for the current first lady led to her telling her speechwriter before the Republican National Convention in July that she wanted to emulate a speech Michelle Obama had made in 2008. That desire was transformed into an episode of direct plagiarism which continues to haunt Trump, even though she was let down by her team.Criticism of this incident is fair, until it is used as a tool to portray Trump as stupid, when she clearly is not.Clinton herself suffered from sexism during the campaign. But why did so many women end up backing Donald Trump? Was it because they did not believe a woman could be president? I doubt it. A different, baggage-free woman, like Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren, could have won. And, given the way the crucial swing states voted, the power of Trump promising jobs in the Rust Belt was stronger than any sexism against Clinton.So what do we tell our daughters? Not to sink into despondency at the election of a man who does not prioritise women's rights, and whose attitude to women is sleazy and repugnant. That no position of power is out of reach, despite Clinton's defeat. But also, that all women have a right to be treated with respect, be they former secretaries of state or Slovenian ex-model wives of billionaires.- The Daily Telegraph