Abrahams responded with a letter of his own where he took umbrage at the tone of Ntlemeza s letter. These letters surfaced in Abrahams s response to an application by lobby groups Helen Suzman Foundation and Freedom Under Law before the high court in Pretoria. The organisations filed an urgent application last week to order President Jacob Zuma to suspend Abrahams head of Priority Crimes Litigation Unit Torie Pretorius and Director of Public Prosecutions for North Gauteng Sibongile Mzinyathi pending an enquiry into their fitness to hold office.The organisations said the three brought baseless criminal charges against Gordhan and this affected the economy. In a letter to Abrahams on the October 30 the day before Abrahams was to set aside the charges against Gordhan and former South African Revenue Service officials Oupa Magashula and Ivan Pillay Ntlemeza expressed dissatisfaction at Abrahams intended decision. Ntlemeza said it was the Hawks considered view that his decision to set aside the charges was not made in good faith on evidence that the Hawks had gathered as an investigative unit in this matter. Rather it seems to us that you make (sic) this decision based on the noise made by politicians civil society lobby groups and the media sympathetic to the accused. These groups have falsely accused the Hawks and the NPA in the public domain of pursuing the case against the accused persons for political purposes on instructions from the political masters which is utter nonsense Ntlemeza said in the letter. #PravinGordhan The day before charges were withdraw, Ntlemeza sent this letter to Abrahams, clearly furious about the decision. pic.twitter.com/vpF1txDlX0Ntlemeza said he was extremely concerned about Abrahams s prevaricating stance with regard to the prosecution of the three. We have made many investigations of fraud and theft as you are aware. It is our considered view that we have a strong case against the accused despite all the contrary views of the so-called opinion makers and legal experts in the media. Ntlemeza said if the accused had any defences to the charges they could present those defences in court. In his response Abrahams said he found Ntlemeza s letter extremely disconcerting . Abrahams said the power to institute criminal proceedings on behalf of the State and to carry out any necessary functions related to the task were constitutionally entrenched and vested in the National Prosecuting Authority. #PravinGordhan Shaun Abrahams response to Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza, taking umbrage and telling him where to get off. pic.twitter.com/EBxpkE94fY Mandy Wiener (@MandyWiener) November 15, 2016 Further the NPA Act provides that a member of the Prosecuting Authority shall serve impartially and exercise carry out or perform his/her powers duties and functions in good faith and without fear favour or prejudice and subject only to the Constitution and the law. "I take umbrage at the very serious allegations you levelled against me of not having acted in good faith. #PravinGordhan Shaun Abrahams response to Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza, taking umbrage and telling him where to get off. pic.twitter.com/EBxpkE94fYIn his affidavit Abrahams also insists he did not bow to pressure to drop the charges, disputes the suggestion that R50 billion would be wiped off the stock exchange if the minister was charged, as well as reports he was planning his 'next move against the minister':#ShaunAbrahams in his affidavit, insisting he did not bow to pressure to withdraw #PravinGordhan charges. pic.twitter.com/tebggzNEIu#PravinGordhan Shaun Abrahams on how the decision impacted the economy. pic.twitter.com/8l7VXW7tES#PravinGordhan Shaun Abrahams says he is not planning his 'next move against the Minister'. pic.twitter.com/vRgnVzgNWqThe application to have Abrahams suspended is due to be heard by a full bench of the High Court in Pretoria next week.This is a developing story.