As thousands of matriculants get ready for their post-exam festivities, parents feeling anxious have been warned to speak to their children before they leave for what is the after-party and grand finale of their high school years.Many school leavers will make their way to KwaZulu-Natal for the annual Rage Festival, which starts tomorrow and ends on Friday. This year s lineup has more than 100 local and international artists, including AKA, Sketchy Bongo, Alok, DJ Speedsta, South London s multi-talented TroyBoi, Brazil s Vintage Culture, Melbourne s bounce maestro Brynny, and psytrance DJ Ghost Rider.Experts have advised parents to embrace their anxiety and engage with their children.Izabella Gates, an author and managing director of Life Talk, said although the celebration could be positive, for some it was often the beginning of bad choices . It s nice to have some sort of celebration; it s almost a rite of passage and can be very positive. But the reality is that a lot of this celebratory time goes the wrong way ... For some it seems to be have fun at all costs . Psychologist Lori Eddy said there were no hard rules on how to deal with the transition. Both Eddy and Gates suggested that parents ask for regular updates from their children, either by SMS or a phone call.Rage Festival organiser Greg Walsh assured parents that their children would be looked after. He said this year s festival would have on duty 40 medics, 250 security personnel and 50 undercover drug police. Bartenders have been told not to serve alcohol to anyone who is drunk. It s natural for teenagers to want to celebrate: all parents can do is trust the values they ve instilled in their children, said Eddy. It s important to explore life; parents should allow their kids some freedom but also lay down boundaries. A non-profit Christian group of 164 volunteers called the Red Frogs will provide water, sweets and safe walks home.Attendance has been increasing by 10% a year and between 16 000 to 19 000 partygoers are expected to converge on KwaZulu-Natal.According to the organisers, Rage generates R160-million for the province. Additional reporting by Taschica Pillay