Both sides have been in good scoring form this season which suggests goals galore with Baroka coach Kgoloko Thobejane having already told reporters this week he expects his side to score four goals against Matsatsantsa.But with 12 goals in their last three league games it is SuperSport who have the Midas touch in front of goal against a Baroka side who have already conceded that number this season. It s going to be a very tight match Zimbabwean midfielder Munetsi who is on loan for the season from Orlando Pirates tells TMG Sport. SuperSport have been winning they are second on the log and in very good form. But we believe in our abilities and we always believe we can match any team in the PSL. I think for us it is about the mental side as much as the physical they have a lot more experience in the PSL than us but we always prepare very well for games and know what to expect. We are ready. Baroka feel they have a score to settle with SuperSport after Matsatsantsa knocked them out of the Nedbank Cup at the semifinal stage last season when the Limpopo club were still campaigning in the National First Division.They are also still searching for a first home win in the league having taken just two points from a possible 12 so far in Polokwane. They have managed draws against Ajax Cape Town and Polokwane City but suffered defeats at the hands of Bidvest Wits (0-2) and Chippa United (1-4).Munetsi meanwhile is pleased with his start to life in the PSL having been signed from FC Cape Town by Pirates and immediately loaned out to Baroka to gain top-flight experience. It s a really good loan at a really good club he says. This is a team that gives youngsters a chance and I am thankful for having the opportunity to play. The 20-year-old is a midfielder by trade but has been pushed further forward by Thobejane this season resulting in two goals already against Polokwane City and Highlands Park.He has featured in every single game for Baroka so far in the 2016/17 season.TMG Digital