The Boks were due to have a full session at the National Sports Centre Wales but according to team management the field was underwater .So training was moved to Cardiff Arms Park s artificial pitch. The venue is adjacent to the Principality Stadium where Saturday s Test against Wales will take place but it s not a perfect facility for scrum sessions due to the surface. Still the Boks were put through their paces with Test places up for grabs after coach Allister Coetzee conceded on Monday that changes would be made. After two Test setbacks on this tour which included a chastening first-ever loss against Italy in Florence last week Coetzee s initial plan to have continuity in selection has given way to desperation for a win. The Boks lost 37-21 against England at Twickenham and then fell 20-18 to Italy at the Artemio Franchi Stadium last weekend. I m looking for enthusiasm and for guys that want to go out there and perform again which is a mental thing Coetzee said. The philosophy I had before the Italian match was to build continuity from the England game believing that the continuity would help us get the result. Obviously we didn t get the result and as a consequence I have to give other players an opportunity this week. At least it will give me an idea about whether some young players can perform at this level and how good they can be. There are certain players who have worked hard on tour and deserve a chance. Coetzee did not elaborate on positions but looseforward halfback and outside backs are likely to affected by a reshuffle. Italy s impressive Simone Favaro beat Nizaam Carr at the breakdown and this week with the prospect of Sam Warburton competing on the deck Coetzee has a problem. Carr is not a natural openside and by his own admission prefers to play No 8.Warren Whiteley has been largely ineffective on the tour and it could be a chance to move Carr to No 8.He might bring in the bruising Jean-Luc du Preez at blindside dropping Willem Alberts to the bench and trying Uzair Cassiem at openside. The Cheetahs flank is not a natural opensider but he has a high work rate pace good reading of the game and the right amount of mongrel to be considered for the problematic position. Scrumhalf Rudy Paige should retain his place after Faf de Klerk s 20-minute horror show against Italy but Coetzee might opt for Johan Goosen at flyhalf. Damian de Allende was one of few Boks to come out the Italy debacle well and should retain his place but he might move to outside centre with Rohan Janse van Rensburg coming in at 12.Francois Venter would drop out. On the wing Jamba Ulengo could be unleashed over Ruan Combrinck. We have challenges as a team and we have to improve Coetzee said. - TMG Digital