There were none of the pyrotechnics that punctuated their November 1 league clash where Pirates were belted 6-1 but SuperSport were the better side. Pirates showed better resilience and spirit but it was not enough.SuperSport took the lead in the 22nd minute through Thabo Mnyamane, who capitalised on a customary Pirates defensive error. Thembela Sikhakhane was the culprit this time when he missed Jeremy Brockie's pass.With Augusto Palacios unable to pick a settled back four like his predecessor Muhsin Ertugral, SuperSport were bound to punish them even though the goal came against the run of play. Pirates did the majority of the running in the first half and tested SuperSport's tall defensive timbers from a pace perspective. What Pirates needed more was composure and that was missing from their front three. Mpho Makola (sixth minute) and Tendai Ndoro (10th minute) should have done better with their efforts. This was shown up by Mnyamane, who had an earlier sixth minute long range well saved by Jackson Mabokgwane. It was clear Pirates had not learnt their lesson when Thabo Rakhale blasted an eminently goalable chance from inside the six-yard box, wasting the hard work Luvuyo Memela and Ndoro had put in during the build-up. Again playing on the right despite being left-footed, Memela put in an excellent shift and kept Aubrey Modiba on his toes.The game degenerated into a tactical scrap where SuperSport were more than happy to soak up the pressure.If Mabokgwane had not got in the way of Dean Furman's powerful 51st minute shot, the game would have been sealed as Pirates were unable to break down SuperSport's defence despite their superior attacking armoury. Substitute Thabo Qalinge had two excellent chances in the 70th and 89th minutes but Reyaad Pieterse was an immovable object in SuperSport's goal.Thabo Matlaba capped off Pirates' frustrating night when Victor Gomes gave him a straight red card in the 80th minute for a despicable foul on Brockie. There would be no way back for Augusto Palacios's side as another Cup Final will not be graced by either of the Soweto giants. - TMG Digital