No, it wasn't for her red carpet look! B wasn't even at the awards! It was more of what was said.You see, the Feathers is known for the spicy shade that gets thrown from its stage each year. And this year Bonang was the victim of most of it.It all started when host Khanya Mkangisa kicked off the show by telling the audience that she had only been given 24 hours to prepare as host of the show."I had 24 hours to prepare but couldn't afford to fly in a stylist from New York," Khanya said, in reference to Bonang being given 24 hours to host the MTV MAMAs. She flew in her stylist from New York at the last minute to dress her. Khanya's co-host Lumko Johnson also joined in the shade-fest, telling the audience that Bonang was an important part of the South African recording industry."Here's my logic, they (the recording industry) saw how much Bonang loved music. So they gave her to Euphonik, Slikour, AKA and even gave her to Nigeria," he said, in reference to Bonang's romances with artists, including Nigerian singer D'banj.Khanya then added another dig, saying: "She's nominated in a number of categories tonight. We hope she snatches those awards like she has snatched everything else".Bonang's former BFF, Somizi also mention her during his Couple of the Year acceptance speech, ending his speech by mimicking her trademark phrase "it's your girl, B!"A video posted by Manaka Ranaka (@manakaranaka) on Nov 17, 2016 at 11:19am PSTA video posted by Manaka Ranaka (@manakaranaka) on Nov 17, 2016 at 11:19am PSTThe show ended with Khanya and Lumko speaking about the popular hashtag #ShowMeTheReceipts, when Khanya threw shade in her example of how the hashtag should be used."Some people claim to be global ambassadors for make-up brands. But show me the receipts," Khanya said, in reference to Bonang's disputed claims to be a global ambassador for Revlon."It must be that African butter," Lumko chimed in, to loud laughs from the crowd. Find the hottest celebrity and entertainment news on TshisaLIVE or follow TshisaLIVE on Facebook and Twitter.