Cisse s intention of speaking in French through an interpreter was clearly to keep his cards close to his chest for what is being viewed as crucial game in Group D by both teams.Cisse who played for four seasons for Birmingham City and Portmouth in the English Premiership as a central midfielder in the 2000s was guarded and secretive answering just three questions before his pre-match press conference on Friday was cut short.The captain of Senegal s famous 2002 World Cup quarterfinal team has overseen an overhaul and big improvement in the Teranga Lions since they drew 1-1 with Bafana at the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations and like South Africa exited in the first round.He has brought a team to Polokwane who have a lot of European-based quality including forwards Sadio Mane of Liverpool Diao Balde Keita (Lazio) and Mame Biam Diouf (Stoke City). Yes we have potential in our team. But even in Africa we have a lot of potential like South Africa as well Cisse said. We have scored 10 goals in our last five games but we don t only score through our strikers many different players score. Senegal have trained behind closed doors at the fields of their hotel 25km outside Polokwane.South African journalists who have travelled to the Protea Ranch Hotel over the past few days have been turned away without interviews with Cisse only speaking to his own travelling press.The secretive approach from the Lions of Teranga belies the magnitude with which they are viewing this game.One Senegalese journalist said that the Lions have taken note of Mamelodi Sundowns Caf Champions League victory last month and the fact that Senegal could not beat Bafana in their last two matches having also lost 1-0 against South Africa in the Nelson Mandela Challenge at Orlando Stadium in September last year.He said Senegal view this game as a potential cup final of Group D.A win for Senegal would put them on six points and almost eliminate dangerous South Africa who would have one point from two games as serious opposition to win the group and reach Russia 2018.Cisse who replaced Frenchman Alain Giresse after Senegal s 2015 Afcon first-round exit said he has tried to address the imbalance in his side displayed at the that tournament in Equatorial Guinea of having a very strong attack but less convincing defence. Between 2015 and 2016 there are many things that have happened. There are many players who have come and gone Cisse said. I think achieving that balance is not as easy for us as for South Africa who have most of their players who play at home. But we are trying our best to get it right. The year 2016 was a great year for Senegal. We want to finish it in a good way by beating Bafana Bafana. Senegal were the only team with a 100 percent win record six victories from six games in the 2017 Afcon qualifiers to reach the tournament in Gabon. South Africa did not qualify.The Lions started their Russia 2018 campaign with a 2-0 home win against Cape Verde Islands last month. Bafana drew 1-1 away against Burkina Faso. - TMG Digital