Stars popular and likeable Italian coach Solinas disappeared mysteriously at the end of a promising first season in 2015-16 leaving the club due to family commitments.He has reappeared as seamlessly following the sacking of Frenchman Denis Lavagne in September and Stars have looked threatening again since Solinas s return.Notably they handed in-form Bidvest Wits their first defeat of the season in the previous round of the Telkom on October 22 at Goble Park - Wits s cup hoodoo side Stars blasting Gavin Hunt s team away 3-1 in extra time after normal time ended 0-0.That match is the one game Komphela will have been able to analyse Stars on since Solinas s return.Ea Lla Koto s subsequent league draws against Highlands Park away (2-2) and Ajax Cape Town on Wednesday night (1-1) were not televised.Amakhosi who fired blanks drawing 0-0 in their league game against Baroka FC at Moses Mabhida on Wednesday night beat Free State 2-0 in Orkney in late September but that was when Themba Sithole was still Stars caretaker-coach. With Free State Stars we saw how they play. And then they ve just changed the coach Komphela said. Previously you could profile them based on players. Now they ve got their previous mentor the coach who had worked with them [Solinas]. But their qualities will forever remain. Against Wits they gave one of their notorious qualities their physique. And they do have their threats. One thing we pick up is that [centreforward] Moeketsi Sekola based on how Solinas used to play them was their trump card. They would play long balls and then look to play the second balls off him. They also have [winger] Danny Venter. We don t know where they will deploy Paulus Masehe is he going to play centreback or central midfield? They ve got quite a few to watch. When they played against Wits the game went to extra time but they then killed it in no time. So we need to be very careful it s not going to be an easy one. A good thing is both teams played on Tuesday so recovery is important and how you utilise that time to get players fresh. Komphela is seeking his first trophy in his second season at Chiefs having lost in the MTN8 and Telkom finals last season.