Senegal ranked 32nd in the world have arrived in Polokwane for potentially Group D s most important fixture aware that if they can get an away victory against 62nd-ranked Bafana there is every chance they will go to the World Cup.Bafana on one point from a 1-1 away draw against Burkina Faso know they can put themselves marginally in the driving seat with a home win that would see them go top of the group on four points to Senegal s three.Jordaan said with South African football on the verge of a revival on the back of Mamelodi Sundowns victory in the Caf Champions League last month Saturday s game is a potentially vital one for Shakes Mashaba s Bafana charges to continue the upward trend. I think it s an important week for all the countries on the continent with hopes and aspirations to go to Russia 2018 Safa s president said. You'll see that in all the groups. In our group we have Senegal with three points and South Africa with one."In the Group of Egypt and Ghana it is Egypt with three and Ghana with one. And so you can got through all of the groups. So it means that this weekend is going to be decisive not just for South Africa but for Ghana. "Because if Egypt get another three points they have six and Ghana has one it s difficult for Ghana after that. So I agree the winners of this game will be in the driving seat."But if you drive you have not reached your destination yet."There is still a long way to go. It s just two matches played it s four left. But we need a result here."And I think Shakes has done what is necessary to look at the resources to look at all of the issues to make sure that we have a team that can compete. And the history will show that we have always performed against Senegal."In the Africa Cup of Nations finals in 2015 in Equatorial Guinea we played them off the park and in fact were dominant until we made a few blunders and that was our undoing [in a 1-1 draw]. There is no margin for error in these matches."It is World Cup qualifiers there are 54 countries on the continent everyone wants to go to the World Cup every country s going to fight to be there. And so it depends on what our team are going to do tomorrow."They must just keep in mind that if we get a result tomorrow we are in the driving seat to Moscow and Russia. And if the celebration of Sundowns winning the Champions League was anything to go by you can imagine what will happen in our country if this team wins tomorrow and restores the hope on the road to Russia. Senegal began their Russia 2018 campaign with a 2-0 home win against Cape Verde Islands last month. - TMG Digital