But he was quick to claim underdog status. The Boks have not lost to England since November 2006 while the current England side have won all nine of their 2016 Tests under new coach Eddie Jones.That included an away series whitewash of Australia in June. We are definitely underdogs this week Coetzee said. We are playing against the second best team in the world on a long winning streak. They did extremely well in Australia and reading the reports they are looking forward to facing us. They are a strong team. Injuries have cut a swathe through both camps which makes it a Test of the unknown in some ways.Coetzee who is scratching his head over open-side flank and his centre combination appears to have retained a sunny outlook even though the weather is wet and cold and prospects of victory are slim. The Boks have enjoyed two days of hard training as overseas-based players were integrated into the squad after missing last week s 31-31 draw against the Barbarians at Wembley. Coetzee admitted he was sorry to see some of the youngsters who did duty against the Barbarians leave the camp.But he told them all to stay ready because their fortunes could change quickly and in the case of flank Uzair Cassiem they did when he was retained after Roelof Smit tore a pectoral muscle at training. It was sad to see seven of them leave on Sunday but I told them a week in rugby is a long time and that some might be back in the course of the tour Coetzee said. You get the feeling this is a big week. It s the start of the official tour."There is a sense of urgency and the positive chat about starting at base zero."We have put the Rugby Championship behind us and are only looking forward to the next three Tests. We are ready to go. The Boks won only two of six matches in the Rugby Championships and have only managed four wins in nine Tests in 2016.But Coetzee indicated a line had been drawn under what has gone before this year. Coetzee said there was no problem with the returning overseas-based players fitting into their roles at training behind closed doors at the Latymer Upper School fields in northwest London. Our preparations for this game started in earnest on Sunday night when all the players arrived from their various clubs Coetzee said. We felt we had the full Springbok team together again. At training you could see the guys that have played at a high level before and all it took was a few tweaks and adjustments for them to fit in. Players came in with different mindsets as some came from the Japanese league and some from Europe. It is challenging but they have all bought in to what we are trying to achieve on this tour. - TMG Digital