Right now for any team to face Sundowns who showed no signs of concentration problems coming down from the high of being crowned African champions last month is no easy task.If anything Chiefs gave a good account of themselves in a game where Downs displayed their gold star above their badge for the first time.Both sides played for pride as much as points Amakhosi aiming to get one over the new Caf Champions League trophy holders and Downs to prevent them from it. There was the desire from each set of players to overcome the other. But in the second half we dropped it a bit Komphela said. The levels of confidence from Sundowns they looked more confident as soon as they got the ball in one-on-ones which was something that we needed to deal with much better. And from our side I thought after we regained possession we needed to find [strikers] Mitchell Katsvairo and Lewis Macha a bit better for them to hold the ball so everybody could come and join. Chiefs took the lead with Ramahlwe Mphahlele s opener from outside the area on the right lobbing the ball in over the head of goalkeeper Denis Onyango in what appeared more a moment of brilliance than a misdirected cross in the 39th minute.But within two minutes Sundowns had equalised Anthony Laffor robbing Willard Katsande in midfield to set Percy Tau then Keagan Dolly free. Dolly played Tebogo Langerman through on the left on the overlap to smash past Itumeleng Khune.Eight minutes into the second half Tiyani Mabunda s lob picked out Anthony Laffor who played Percy Tau through to shoot which was cleared off the line by Mphahele.Sibusiso Vilakazi spooned the rebound in.Komphela said Chiefs had conceded the goals too weakly. The business of the day the goals scored: I thought we gave away cheap goals from our own errors. In a game of football goals are scored from mistakes. But they were too cheap. The first goal was from a break attack and an equaliser at a crucial time. We just scored and we were hoping to manage the game. And S bu [left-back Sibusiso Khumalo] went down injured then. There was a bit of commotion and then we failed to deal with the run of Langerman. It was 1-1 in no time. With the second goal we failed to cut the ball by the benches and directly they went on a break attack and we conceded the second. Komphela said he was not sure yet what the extent of Khumalo s injury was. Winger William Twala was seen at the match in a moon-boot. They had given Twala about two to three weeks to come back from the injury against Free State Stars [two weeks ago] so we will have a look at him Komphela said.Fourth-placed Chiefs who have not won in four league and cup matches meet third-placed Cape Town City at FNB Stadium on Wednesday. - TMG Digital