Advocate Thuli Madonsela s report released late on Wednesday reveals the closest admitted link yet between Hlongwane and the Zuma family. Hlongwane is an enigmatic character who has avoided close scrutiny over the years despite his name often surfacing at the centre of major controversies.Hlongwane was a key figure in South Africa s arms deal whose companies are alleged to have channeled R200m in payments from British Aerospace as alleged bribes for the ANC. Only this week he was named in a British Broadcasting Corporation and Guardian expose which linked him to an international network of agents who facilitated payments many thought to be bribes for British company Rolls Royce.The network of agents is now the focus of large-scale investigations by anti-corruption agencies in the UK and the US.In her report Madonsela reveals how Hlongwane - recently named by the Sunday Times as the facilitator - wrote to her about the meeting between the Guptas deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas and Zuma s son Duduzane Zuma in October 2015 where Jonas claims he was offered the finance minister job.She said Hlongwane wrote her an unsolicited letter on September 29. The title of his letter suggested to her that he had access to one of my official documents relating to the investigation prior to any correspondence with my office . The title of his letter had echoed that of her own correspondence with the Gupta family.But Hlongwane claimed to Madonsela in the letter that Jonas had not been offered a job by the Guptas at the meeting but instead that Jonas had made statements that I was blackmailing him. He claims the meeting had been to discuss these alleged blackmail claims. At the private venue the blackmail story was specifically raised with Deputy Finance Minister Jonas. He (Jonas) stated that he had no recollection of any such blackmail conversations with anyone. Madonsela records a later interview she had with Hlongwane. In the interview Hlongwane confirmed to Madonsela that he had known Duduzane for some time and was an uncle to him although claimed to have no relationship with the President.He claimed that the Guptas were his casual acquaintances and that he had no business relationship with them.But in April the Sunday Times reported that Hlongwane had been identified as the "fixer" who took Jonas to meet the Guptas last year.The Sunday Times reported: "A number of insiders with intimate knowledge of the meeting revealed that it was Hlongwane who arranged the meeting at a Sandton hotel where Jonas was offered the finance minister post while Nhlanhla Nene was still in office."The paper quoted an ANC insider as saying Hlongwane was a regular visitor at the Gupta compound in Saxonwold northern Johannesburg.The Mail and Guardian revealed in 2010 that Hlongwane had financed a R4m home for General Siphiwe Nyanda and reports have said that Britain s Serious Fraud Office had named him as a subject of their investigations into arms deal payments.