Setlhomamaru Isaac Dintwe, the head of Unisa s police practice department, was yesterday named by the joint standing committee on intelligence as its unanimous candidate for the post of inspector-general of intelligence.The IGI is responsible for ensuring that the intelligence services act within the confines of the law.The position has been vacant for almost 18 months.Faith Radebe left the job when her contract expired in March last year.Parliament struggled to fill the position because opposition parties refused to endorse the ANC s preferred candidate, its former MP Cecil Burgess, and the governing party failed to secure the two thirds majority required fo r its candidate to be approved. But, given the unanimity on Dintwe s nomination, the National Assembly is expected to endorse him, allowing President Jacob Zuma to sign off his appointment.Prior to being an academic, Dintwe was a senior member of the Independent Police Investigative Directorate in Mpumalanga. He has a doctorate in police practice and related qualifications.Lobby group Right2Know, which has put pressure on parliament to appoint an IGI, was lukewarm about Dintwe s nomination. We have seen the picture in circulation of the candidate with Minister of Communications Faith Muthambi and ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, said R2K spokesman Murray Hunter, in reference to a picture on D i n twe s Facebook page. It would be up to the candidate to explain the nature of that relationship. Having a certain political affiliation doesn t necessarily mean a candidate is unsuitable but it would be seriously concerning if a political affiliation were not disclosed to parliament and the public. The incoming inspector general must take on a huge backlog of investigations, many of which could be politically explosive and test the independence of the office. You can be sure that we intend to use this office. Our members have been harassed by intelligence officials and have witnessed serious abuses of power. If there s an inspectorgeneral, they can expect us at their office on day one, Hunter promised.