A capricious breeze swirled around the Gary Player Country Club and by the time the sun set Chile's Felipe Aguilar, South Korea's Jeunghun Wang and England's Ross Fisher were the least afflicted by the sudden gusts.They are four under but by no means out of harm's way. The chasing pack includes former champion and favourite Henrik Stenson, South Africa's Jaco van Zyl and George Coetzee, England's Chris Wood, Sweden's Alex Noren, France's Victor Dubuisson and Scotland's Richie Ramsay.The wind isn't gale force, but its effects from the tee bamboozles the unsuspecting.Fisher, on his fourth visit, has at least worked out when to go hard and when to lay off. "There are times you can be aggressive and there are times when you need to be strategic," he said."At the same time around here when you walk up to the ninth and you see all those scores you know you need to shoot low to have a chance."Especially so when you have the likes of Open champion Stenson breathing down your neck.Stenson made an unspectacular start before dropping a shot on the par-four sixth. He atoned at the eighth. He almost overhit his 300m four-wood drive but it allowed him the shortest possible approach, which he hit to within a few feet. He drained the birdie putt and he followed it up with a long birdie putt on the island green of the ninth.He suffered a setback on the 13th, but finished with birdies at 16, 17 and 18 to announce his presence behind the leaders."It was a tough day out there," he said. "I didn't play well and no one in the group played particularly well on the front nine and it was a struggle. The wind was pretty strong today and it swirls. We are playing in a bit of a bowl and that makes it swirl, I guess. It was tough conditions and I kept my patience."Coetzee also lamented the challenging conditions.He, too, had to negotiate the course not entirely sure of the outcome whenever his ball went aerial. "You don't know whether it is down, or helping across, or from which side it comes," he said of the wind."The problem is, it seems to be across on most of the holes, but you don't know whether it is hurting or helping," said Coetzee.