Manyama has been in excellent form in helping City to six wins in a row in all competitions and they will be favourites to reach a maiden cup final in their first season in the Premier Soccer League.But Manyama is wary too of a Stars side that may be propping up the Premier League table but have already ousted Bidvest Wits and Kaizer Chiefs from the Telkom Knockout this season. We are playing a team that is last on the log but their league form does not mean anything Manyama said. They have beaten Wits and Chiefs two of the best teams in the league at this time so we have to give them the respect they deserve. Manyama believes that should Stars score the first goal the visitors will park the proverbial bus but a goal for City will force them to open up in search of an equaliser and leave spaces for City s pacey forwards to exploit. When we play at home we want to be in control and attack."But cup games are very different and they can be dangerous because they can come here and score one and with the kind of formation that they play if you let them score first it s hard to break them down."So we have to be very careful Manyama says. We have to create opportunities for ourselves and make sure we take them because they [Stars] come here to work very hard. When you win games the confidence goes high and you can see the guys are confident."But confidence can also be a disadvantage so we will be very cautious to make sure we don t concede. City have scored nine goals in their last three matches in all competitions with those being spread around the team.Manyama says now that a number of players have broken their scoring duck they are not so anxious to go it alone and have been reveling in team goals. At first I think everybody just wanted to score and didn t think about the other guy but it becomes easier when you see a guy in a better position and let him have an easy tap-in. We have been sharing the goals among ourselves. Manyama has relished wearing the armband for City this season but does not believe that has anything to do with his own excellent personal form. Even if I wasn t captain I would still want to play in the same way."It s a matter of wanting to help the team. For me being captain is an honour but it doesn t mean I need to do anything special."I just want to improve and help the team improve because at the end of the day it is about the team not me. Coach Eric Tinkler revealed on Thursday that the players would receive half the prize-money in the Telkom Knockout but Manyama says for the team it is about making history and not improving their bank balance. When we do well we have to be rewarded for it but that s not on our mind the first thing that we think about is making history."At this moment we have not achieved anything but we are moving in the right direction and things are looking good for the team. - TMG Digital