Zuma was addressing members of the KwaZulu-Natal Cadres forum.The party says the forums are aimed at raising the political consciousness of its members as a result of the current political situation facing the country.In reference to criticism he is facing Zuma said people who were thieves were "quick to see other thieves"."It's like those who steal today they say Zuma steals while they are the worst thieves. They have investigated me all over but they are finding nothing because I'm not doing anything. If they have found anything it would be over [for me]. Those are the thieves and I know they are stealing. I'm just watching them. I know them " he said.Zuma said members should not worry when people speak ill of the ANC.He said that was why he was not perturbed when he was being labelled a dog."Let's stop worrying about nothing. I will always be here for better or for worse. You can lie and spread lies until they are all over Durban " he said.Zuma said the ANC as a liberation movement was suffering from the challenges of incumbency like all liberation movements in Africa.He said he trusted the ANC's ability to evolve with the times and stand despite whatever was thrown in its path.Zuma lectured the ANC members about the global balance of forces saying the only sin South Africa had committed was to be part of Brics which had upset the apple cart and rocked the global establishment."They know that Russia and China are not only the biggest economies in Brics but they are permanent members of the [UN] security council whose vote can veto decisions. And us being part of that does not sit well....South Africa was also the one that pushed for the Brics bank. They do not love us and that is why they want to destroy South Africa " he said. Zuma said the evidence of this could be traced in the removal of Brazilian president Dilmar Roussef through a vote of no confidence downgrading of the Chinese economy and sanctions in Russia."They have tried a vote of no confidence seven times here in South Africa " said Zuma.Zuma said it was important that the ANC attains economic power since it has the political power.He expressed concern though that it was slowly slipping away.TMG Digital