John's retirement, set for the end of the year, was announced by the station through a statement on Thursday morning. He is to be replaced by afternoon drive show host Xolani Gwala.News of the retirement soon saw John's name trend on social media site Twitter.And while some fans of the show wished him well, many users celebrated the news with memes and jokes.And, you know, Twitter can be brutal.What? John Robbie retired? Siyabonga!!!! pic.twitter.com/8d5hMAtt0n Buhle Mbonambi (@Buhlebonga) November 10, 2016John Robbie's retirement is the best thing that has ever happened this 2016 #BRINGBACKOURLAND (@Hlomani_Job) November 10, 2016I've stopped listening to 702 bcoz of some silly obnoxious comments of John Robbie, maybe I'll start listening to 702 again... Oreneile Tsotlhe (@Mmabeta) November 10, 2016Now I will listen to talk radio during my morning ride to work because that condescending fool called John Robbie is retiring. Rural Intellect (@Marcellomj) November 10, 2016John Robbie retiring from 702. It's about damn time! pic.twitter.com/aiqGnZdNoo Babes WeEducation (@MissMadiba) November 10, 2016Us right now in the office because John Robbie is bouncing pic.twitter.com/LRphBwWWFr Rural Intellect (@Marcellomj) November 10, 2016When I had the news that John Robbie is retiring. pic.twitter.com/gOrRY5rlEd Modern Day Pantsula (@Thabiso_Dlamini) November 10, 2016What? John Robbie retired? Siyabonga!!!! pic.twitter.com/8d5hMAtt0nJohn Robbie's retirement is the best thing that has ever happened this 2016I've stopped listening to 702 bcoz of some silly obnoxious comments of John Robbie, maybe I'll start listening to 702 again...Now I will listen to talk radio during my morning ride to work because that condescending fool called John Robbie is retiring.John Robbie retiring from 702. It's about damn time! pic.twitter.com/aiqGnZdNooUs right now in the office because John Robbie is bouncing pic.twitter.com/LRphBwWWFrWhen I had the news that John Robbie is retiring. pic.twitter.com/gOrRY5rlEdJohn came under fire earlier this year when he made a remarks about those protesting the hair policy at schools across South Africa.At the time TshisaLIVE had learnt that the comments landed John in hot water, but Primedia denied that there were any plans for him to leave. </img> Find the hottest celebrity and entertainment news on TshisaLIVE or follow TshisaLIVE on Facebook and Twitter. 