Add the fact that it falls on the last payday before Christmas, that it s a retail event with more FOMO-inducing American hype than a Starbucks or Krispy Kreme store opening, and South African consumers were bound to embrace it with open wallets.A few South African retailers tested the Black Fridays waters in 2014, but it really took off here last year, Absa reporting that card spend increased by 81% compared to the average day throughout the year, and by 40% on Cyber Monday.No doubt the bargain hunting phenomenon had a considerable impact on the not-so-exciting Janu-worry over-indebtedness levels early this year.Those who stand to get the most out of Black Friday - apart from the retailers, of course - are targeted, focused consumers who are after a specific product, know what it normally sells for, find it on sale at a massively reduced price and go out to buy it tomorrow, ignoring all the other specials .Those who get swept up in the hype could well find themselves with not quite the bargain they thought they were getting.Virusha Naidu of Durban was most put out to see a battery-operated toy car advertised in a ToysRUs Black Friday catalogue for R899, the was price stated as R1499. But this week it was selling for R999 in the Gateway store, she said, supplying a photograph as proof. So the saving is not R600, as stated, but just R100. The manager must take me for a fool, saying the R999 was the price of that car two to three months ago. That s not true - I am in the store every week, she said. As a huge retailer, you should be honest with your advertising, she said in an email to the company. Asked to respond, ToyRUs marketing manager Nicole Annells said: Please note that the was price of this product is correct at R1499.90. There was a system error at store level, hence the incorrect pricing on product of R999.90. This has since been rectified. Also bear in mind that Black Friday provides retailers with a perfect opportunity to flog old stock which they were planning to discount anyway. So do your homework on the products you fancy.And remember that retailers are not obliged to take back any product if it is not defective, so be sure before you purchase.But normal Consumer Protection Act protections apply if something you ve bought becomes defective within six months of purchase - regardless of how discounted it was on a sale.So keep your slip, and if your bargain breaks in the next six months you can take it back for your choice of a refund, replacement or repair.