But instead of teaching the 18-year-old to become more independent she was abducted brutally raped and pushed into a pit of chronic post-traumatic stress disorder.Now the municipality that owns and runs the resort in the town of Ceres has been ordered by the High Court in Cape Town to pay R780.000 in damages because it had failed to take steps to ensure her safety.The horrific incident happened in 2009 at the Pine Forest Holiday Resort.The victim had a traumatic upbringing and had overcome several obstacles to integrate with society. She weighed 7.3kg at the age of about seven and suffered from severe sensory motor deprivation because she had never been touched and had been confined to a cot so small that she could not turn over. At that age she had to be taught to sit up crawl walk talk and feed herself read the judgment handed down by Judge AJ Donen on November 17. During the next seven years with love therapy and attention she developed her faculties and reached the level of a grade 1 child. She could participate in athletics and play football. When she was raped her development was set back a year. She was reduced to her childhood babble and a trance-like state the judgment read.A special needs teacher had explained to her parents that it was important for the teenager to become independent. On the day of the attack they made a decision that she would do something on her own. A psychologist testified that it was an appropriate decision having regard to her development. She was allowed to play alone at the resort play park.While playing on a trampoline she was abducted by two young males and taken by force to a squash court where she was violently raped. Her mother arrived and screamed at the attackers to stop.She had to undergo surgery to her private parts as a result of the injuries she had suffered.A curator who sued the municipality on behalf of the teenager argued that it had failed to protect her from being raped. The municipality initially denied being negligent and suggested that her adoptive parents may have been negligent. But the court found that her parents were not negligent. Judge Donen said while the rape was not perpetrated by the municipality as an organ of state it had to be accountable and take responsibility for its omissions.Her mother described the ordeal as crucifixion. She has never forgotten it. It emerged during the trial that the teenager s rape was not an isolated incident at the resort. During the year before the [teenager s] rape a plethora of rapes or criminal incidents had occurred at the resort the judgment reads.The court found that the municipality had failed to appoint a competent security firm to secure the resort as it had undertaken to do so after the spate of criminal activities at the resort.