Pietersen s size experience defensive positioning and sense of calm were missed as the Boks slumped to four losses in six outings in the Championship. That included a record 57-15 loss against the All Blacks.Pietersen admitted he found it hard to watch as he began a new phase of his career playing for the Leicester Tigers in the English premiership. As a Springbok it hurts when you see your teammates struggling because I know they re better than that Pietersen said."But I ve seen a lot confidence in the camp and heard positive chat since being back. The Championship wasn t great for us but if we get a good win against a very good England team it will help us a lot and give us confidence. The boys have been working hard and it s all about executing our gameplan. Pietersen missed Monday s training session in London with a knee strain which he picked up in a club game last weekend. But he was confident that he would be ready to face England at Twickenham this weekend. I ve been running very well and I know my body well so I will be ready for selection Pietersen said. I ve only been in England for four months it s been good for me. The way my club plays is completely different to the way England plays. We have more NZ flair but as the coach says it s going to be all about the set piece. Coach Allister Coetzee concurred that the only way to match England would be from a strong set piece platform.England have won nine Tests in a row under new coach Eddie Jones making them overwhelming favourites for this match after a decade of failure against the Boks.The last time England beat the Springboks was in November 2006 but given that SA have lost five of nine Tests this year local optimism is warranted. The week started last night (Sunday) and you felt a shift now that the full compliment of Bok team is here Coetzee said. You get the feeling this is a big week. It s the start of the official tour. There is a sense of urgency and starting at base zero. We have put the Rugby Championship behind us and we are ready to go. If you want to control the game you have to have a solid set piece on both defence and attack. Both teams for Saturday are right up there in terms of lineout success rate. Set piece has been one area we have been good at this year. - TMG Digital