Agreements are being signed with violent minorities that would be inconceivable in peace times.The stakes are high for the vice-chancellors.If final examinations are disrupted, tens of thousands of students will not complete the year, many will drop out, and few will return for the gamble of non-disrupted examinations in January.There is another risk - the uncertainty and chaos that seem inevitable for new enrolments as matriculants wait to hear about their admission. It is extremely difficult for administration staff to manage all three classes of students - the graduating students, the continuing students and the new, incoming students - simultaneously when campuses are shut for weeks at a time.Think about some of the compromises. Students are writing in military bases, such as Youngsfield and Wingsfield in Cape Town. Limited examination venues are guarded by public policing and private security. Even then buildings are set alight by violent agitators in the hope of ruining the examinations.What are the educational implications of writing under such conditions? Can students concentrate with all the drama outside? How does one write when you know others choose not to? These are difficult questions and you do not need a psychologist to tell you that the mind and emotions are affected by writing under conditions of duress.But there is another compromise that has been made. "I am ashamed," one of my friends at a major university tells me, "that some of my colleagues simply decided to drop the content for the four weeks we were closed."Think about that. Universities struggle with curriculum coverage when there are no disruptions. Surely there are risks to the public when four weeks of training and education are lost? Imagine a social worker or optometrist or urban planner or engineer losing that volume of skills and competency development. Who are the professionals we are sending into practice?Four weeks might not sound like much but any university teacher will tell you there are serious risks with such a blank sheet in knowledge acquisition. This is a very serious compromise.We have also compromised on face-to-face teaching. The one unintended innovation of the closed-again, open-again academic year is that university teaching might have "flipped" in most university classrooms; that is, the ratio of face-to-face teaching to online instruction might change forever in favour of computer-assisted learning. What was until now an innovation in some courses and classes might well become the new norm forced on universities by the recent crisis. It works; the violent minority need an audience for political attention and when you take that away from them - a live class to disrupt on social media - all they are left with is buildings, which are much easier to contain.Don't expect the violent minority to go easily - they will "boo-hoo" that "the poor" do not have access to computers. Having shut down and set fire to computer labs, this group, with a straight face, now claim to speak for students without access to those same facilities. No doubt university management will find a way around this problem, which is not insurmountable in a time when the poorest student has a cellphone.This shift of instruction in favour of online teaching with less frequent large-scale class time might not be a bad idea. Too often, students lose focus and concentration in classes where there are more than 100 or even 200 students, such as introductory psychology or economics. On the other hand, there are certain professional courses in which students need to be present in classes or sessions to learn particular skills, from basic surgery to interactive primary school teaching to architectural drawing.Nonetheless, political necessity has become the mother of technological invention and students learning from home or their dorms might become the new normal.The most important compromise, however, has not been in the hardware of technology but in the software of trust. University leaders have been pushed back, insulted, humiliated and demeaned by violent students, and this has changed both groups. The vice-chancellors have lost confidence and trust in student leaders; the students have lost their respect and regard for university management. It is going to be very, very difficult to bridge that gap.