Jantjies has been selected to start alongside scrumhalf Faf de Klerk in one of seven changes to the starting lineup that lost 20-18 against Italy last weekend. Coach Allister Coetzee has made a total of 12 changes to the 23-man squad for the final clash of a desperately poor season that has seen the Boks lose seven of 11 Tests. The team overhaul has been made with Rugby World Cup 2019 in mind and not necessarily an immediate positive result against a vastly more experienced Welsh team. The Boks backline only has a combined 40 Tests caps while Wales back division has 335 caps. Lions centre Rohan Janse van Rensburg is one of four debutants in the squad and will have the comfort of playing outside his provincial halfback partners. We are inexperienced in terms of Test caps Jantjies said. But myself Faf and Rohan have played a lot of rugby together at the Lions and that s exciting to see him getting a chance. Rohan is a great runner on my shoulder and we will try and do what we do at provincial level communicate well and put Rohan in positions to get over the gainline. We have to use Rohan effectively so he can give us a good platform whether it s taking it up from first or second phase or using him as a playmaker. Jantjies admitted that he was looking forward to taking a leadership role as one of the senior players in the backline this week. Despite only having 10 Test caps Jantjies is the second most experienced backline player in the team and comes with a wealth of provincial experience. I ve challenged myself to make good decisions and to take a leadership role Jantjies said. I m calm and know what is expected of me and the team. I will try to inspire the players around me."We have been through some good times and some bad times this season so we are looking forward to finishing on a high. We ve put the Italy match behind us. But it shows too that any side can beat another on the day. We ve had some good discussions earlier this week."There is a great energy and seeing younger players getting an opportunity and making a statement at Test match level has created a positive feeling. De Klerk echoed Jantjies view that Janse van Rensburg could bring a new dimension to the team. I m always comfortable playing next to Elton and is exciting to see Rohan get his chance because we went really well together at provincial level De Klerk said. There is great excitement in the camp because of the changes and we re ready to take them on. As halfbacks we always have a huge responsibility to organise the team so whether you have one cap or 100 it makes no difference in terms of your role. - TMG Digital