He never seems to learn. After the scandal of his grandiose home improvements, his unsavoury association with the supremely wealthy Gupta family, and after his failed first effort to tar his finance minister, Pravin Gordhan, with dubious corruption charges, Zuma might be expected to be wary, to attempt circumspection but he s clearly determined not to back down, even as the political tide and South African civil society alike turn against him and his party.The Nelson Mandela Foundation called for him to be removed from office. The opposition has been elected to take over the country s great municipalities. Even the ANC chief whip called upon him to resign.To add to the tawdriness, Zuma has now failed for a second time to get rid of Gordhan, whom he almost certainly regards as an obstacle to unfettered corruption. Gordhan is standing firm, which makes him a problem although there are indications he could be hit with more corruption charges again soon.Nevertheless, as far as Zuma s concerned, it s business as usual. He has come up with no solution or compromise for the increasingly furious student protests roiling the country s campuses, no plans for expanding and improving healthcare, improving the delivery of public services, and no plan for ensuring electricity. He doesn t seem to care if the value of the rand falls because of his machinations, which serve himself and his cronies above even the ANC, much less the nation.And that s precisely the point. Zuma goes on, and knows he can go on, because the ANC itself no matter what people say about an internal struggle has been captured by an elite cabal of corrupt people. They have firmly ensconced themselves at the top of a trickle-down structure of corruption and patronage, one that extends to the most remote parts of the ANC apparatus in South Africa s outlying provinces. If you want a contract for public services or delivering public goods, you have to have it sanctioned by the ANC.All this could certainly work without Zuma, but he is simply too useful for his cronies to depose him. The corrupt elite he enables are anxious to safeguard their personal revenue-raising schemes. The president is a lightning rod: as long as he s the focus of public attention, most of his dubious associates are not.And so they prop up an unpopular president, one who looks increasingly silly, so they can continue go about their business which amounts to nothing less than the slow ransacking of the nation.Gordhan might be able to keep making a stand, and he s no doubt trying his best. But a pebble in a river is not a dam. South Africa s corrupt elite are too lazy for their pillage to be especially sophisticated or elusive, and in one sense, that s just as well. But in another, it simply adds to the disaster engulfing the South African body politic and body economic.Nobody thinks any more about modernity, internationalism, South Africa s disappearing place in the sun. Nobody thinks of complex engagement with the rest of the world. The theme of the moment is plain and simple theft on a national scale by those who control the party and the state alike.-This article was first published at The Conversation.