The release of additional water reserves coincides with the implementation of water rationing a similar concept to the load shedding of electricity by the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality.The Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) is drawing water from Sterkfontein reserves to keep the level of the Vaal Dam at 25% of capacity.If the Vaal's water levels dip below 25% the Gauteng municipalities that it feeds will suffer said DWS spokesman Sputnik Ratau.The Vaal is currently at 26% of capacity. We started [releasing water to the Vaal] this morning at 9am. We are starting [to transfer at an intensity of] 20 cubic metres per second and escalating to about 70 cubic metres per second at the beginning of December. That will be the peak said Ratau.The intensity will return to 20 cubic metres per second by the end of December with Sterkfontein's supply being shut off around this time. The water will be flowing from Sterkfontein to Nuwejaarspruit into the Wilge River and then ultimately into the Vaal Ratau said.In 54 days the Vaal Dam will receive 200 million cubic metres of water from Sterkfontein which lies near Harrismith over 200km away from the Vaal.The flow of water is being closely monitored to avoid flooding along the way. Farmers on the river banks have been warned to remove pumps livestock and equipment.In Ekurhuleni severe water-saving measures are being taken as residents and business have failed to reach a saving rate of 15%. Water rationing measures will initially be implemented from 21h00 to 05h00 every night starting from Monday 7 November 2016. This means there will be no water during this period in the affected areas. If these measures do not achieve the required 15% the city will ration water during the day as well the municipality said.Johannesburg is experiencing level two water restrictions but authorities have warned that this may be ramped up to level-3 if the city fails to reach its 15% savings target.Tidimalo Chuene of Johannesburg Water says level-3 restrictions should be treated as the city's last resort. If we are not able to make the saving we want we will need to go to level three but we are reluctant to go to level three due to the serious implications for infrastructure. We need to make it work at level two she said.Chuene said the saving which is currently not being reached can be made if residents cut down on outdoor water usage which currently accounts for 40% of the city's water use.Ekurhuleni last month started levying penalties for excessive water use. To date about 3000 businesses and 41000 households have used water in excess of the allowed amounts. The city has charged R1.7-million in penalties for this. - TMG Digital