The Blitz was never really the Blitz. For years, reading war novels and war comics, I believed the old myth of the Blitz spirit - that in those dark days of the early 1940s the huddled folk of London unified in the shadow of the bombs, that class tensions disappeared and rich and poor, upstairs and downstairs, society lady and barrow boy stood shoulder to shoulder, singing a defiant song, possibly urging Mother Brown to increase the elevation of her knees or floating over-optimistic expectations of how much fun it'll be when the barrel's rolled out.But of course, that didn't really happen. The English were stubborn and defiant in the face of the German bombing, but they didn't suddenly become a model society. They still behaved badly. There was looting and black-market profiteering; there was division and scapegoating; crime rates rose 33%. People carried on being people.For a while now Zuma has been doing for us what the Germans couldn't do for the English. With the exception of Andile Mngxitama - truly a man whose only regret in life is that he has so few principles to sell - the loathing of Zuma and his inner circle of toadies and clumsily thieving hobgoblins has united us all, black and white, short and tall. Could the DA and the EFF ever have formed a coalition without Zuma? Zuma makes miracles, but it won't last forever. On the day he goes, strangers will kiss in the street, and then it will start again.What about a natural disaster? Surely that might bind us in common cause? There's a drought in the north, and just about one in the south too. Johannesburg Water asked citizens to reduce consumption by 15%. They reduced it by 0.8%.Black people blamed rich white people with gardens and swimming pools, as though there are no rich black people with gardens or swimming pools. White people blamed Johannesburg Water and its bad planning and infrastructure, as though bad governance somehow absolves them of the responsibility to be good citizens and good human beings. White people and black people; we make it so easy to divide us.That's why it was such a lovely moment, listening to Pravin Gordhan's speech in parliament last week, when I realised that it was inspiring me.He wasn't giving us good news. He was telling us that things are pretty bad, that we're not attracting investment and we're spending more money than we have and that time's running out and some of our leaders are trying hard to make it worse.That's all pretty dark, yet I felt my heart stir because of a simple rhetorical device: he kept talking about "us". He kept saying we're in trouble but we can make it right, that if we work together we can still win. He spoke as though he believed that despite everything we're a people, that if we want it we can still have a common purpose and a common destiny. That's a very unfashionable attitude in 2016 but by God, it felt good.It's popular to declare that the Rainbow Nation is dead. It was despised from the beginning by the right, and somewhat more recently by the newer and younger left (who in their rhetoric of separatist nationalism are sometimes not easily distinguishable from the right). Certainly, the idea that we'll all listen to Mandoza and do some ubuntu and everything will be all right is dead, and a good thing too. Catastrophic racial inequality and systems of structural exclusion that leave the vast majority of black citizens on the physical and metaphorical fringes of society aren't just unsustainable, they're an absolute moral wrong.But in violently excising the rotten parts of the Rainbow Nation dream - the parts that try to make us forget that nothing will materially change for the black poor unless something powerful and decisive is done to change it - the new exclusionary nationalists are trying to throw out the other parts too.These are the new voices that imagine it to be politically progressive to talk in sweeping terms about whites and Indians and Jews, and politically retrograde and reactionary to quibble, maybe even signs of being an irredeemable old racist to want to clear your throat tentatively and say: "Um, maybe not all whites?"It's those other parts that will save us: the assertion that our future is together, that it's only together, making sacrifices, making compromises, hanging in, thinking of ourselves as part of a whole, that we can possibly flourish.There are sacrifices to make, bigger sacrifices than the greenness of your lawns and the top half of your swimming pool, but maybe that's not a bad place to start.Or maybe we need someone to try to invade us.