Last week I went to the movies with a shoe salesman I'd never met before.We had some time to kill so we were poking around a shoe store. I was torturing my wife by pretending to have forgotten the universal truth that men should never wear red shoes, when the shoe guy asked what movie we'd be seeing. I told him Arrival, and he said he wanted to see that, so I said, "Why don't you come with us?"Please don't think I make a habit of inviting strangers to sit beside me in the dark and share my popcorn, nor that I'm temperamentally in favour of making a threesome on marital excursions. This was Day 4 of a week-long experiment with something called Rejection Therapy, but rejection is like a policeman - it's only ever around when you don't want it.Rejection Therapy was invented by a Canadian named Jason Comely. Some years ago his wife left him for a man he describes as "taller, better looking and more interesting than me", and this had a regrettable effect on his self-confidence.He started staying home more, dusting his decorative moosehead, rearranging his collection of novelty cocoa mugs instead of going out into the world and beginning the frightening journey of becoming vulnerable to other people again. He was crippled by the fear of rejection that has always dogged him, and he recognised that as with most fears, the more you avoid it, the larger it looms, waxing like a moon until it gathers its own weight and gravity and overshadows the thing to which it was originally attached.He set himself the task of being rejected once a day for a month. The very next day he went out and asked a stranger for a lift across town. The stranger said no, he wasn't going that way. Jason smiled and said "Thank you" and walked on, lighter in his step.For the next month he wove rejection into his daily routine. He asked passers-by on dates; he challenged strangers to play ching-chong-cha; he randomly requested discounts from sales clerks. He imposed certain rules on these attempts: it had to be a sincere effort and a plausible request; he couldn't be creepy; he couldn't cause other people to feel more uncomfortable than him.The idea was to force himself to realise that it's not fatal to be rejected, and train himself not to take it personally. It made him recognise that so much of what we experience as true about ourselves and the world is just a story happening only in our heads. He also found that it's not as easy to be rejected as we assume it is when we're focusing on the fear.This is something I discovered a few years ago when I decided to tackle my own shyness. I have the kind of shyness that sometimes makes me seem aloof, at other times mentally defective. I've skipped parties in case someone spoke to me and I didn't know what to say back; I've stayed too long at parties because I couldn't work up the nerve to leave.It's a shyness that applies equally with strangers and acquaintances and even sometimes friends, but strangers are always easier than friends, so I adopted a plan of each day trying to make a connection with someone I don't know: on the street, in shops, on public transport. I've become one of those annoying people who sit beside you on a flight and try to make conversation. There will always be an irreducible, genetic level of shyness, but what's astonishing isn't how easy it is to talk to people when you persuade yourself that you're the kind of person who talks to people; it's how often they talk back.Jason Comely found he had to try three or four times to get the rejection he was after, and I found the same thing last week when I tried using some of his prompts. I didn't ask anyone on a date or anything foolish like that, but when I asked the guy in the bank if he would stroke my cheek and tell me if I'd shaved closely enough, he did. The only flat-out rejection was Day 2: "Reach out to someone who has previously snubbed you." Strangers are always easier than friends.I discovered something that I'd previously sensed, that the world is like an advent calendar - not a modern advent calendar, but one of those advent calendars when we were kids, where the doors were well hidden but if you found them and opened them they contained beautiful pictures and hidden treats.The shoe guy didn't enjoy Arrival in the end - he found the time-jumps unconvincing - but I did, and I also enjoyed the discount on my wife's new shoes.