A picture of brave truck driver Vuyani Dindiswayo and his colleague Lucas Bota pulling stranded motorists and taxi passengers to safety is making the rounds on social media generating many accolades. They are credited with helping at least 20 stranded motorists.The Cape Town-based trucker told TimesLIVE that he still does not know where he found the courage to do what he did."I just looked at these people suffering and I said to myself 'if I am to die trying to help these people then so be it'. But I knew God is with me so nothing would happen to me " Dindiswayo said.The 31-year-old driver for DPMM Logistics says he arrived in Johannesburg on Monday from Cape Town to collect containers from City Deep which he was meant to drop off in Durban on Wednesday.Dindiswayo and his colleague were stuck in the traffic for over four hours during the flood."I was sitting in that truck and I saw two gentleman clinging onto a tree with their bags and then I said to Lucas who was in his truck behind me 'come let's go and rescue those guys there'."He took out ropes from his truck and I did the same. We jumped straight into the water - which was close to my stomach level - and then we took the two ropes and put them together and tied each other to the trucks so we didn t get swept away " Dindiswayo said.The driver said he and his colleague tried to save as many people as they could."We went to the two men and carried them from the tree to a safe area but... the rain was strong and there were many cars being swept away. So we just started going to rescue people one-by-one. There were many people and cars just kept flowing in that water."At least 150 cars were recovered by rescue operations and a total of four people were reportedly killed by the floods. The South African Weather Service has warned of more storms around Johannesburg on Thursday afternoon advising motorists to take additional precautions and avoid low-lying areas.Dindiswayo said he was heartbroken because they had failed to save a woman who was trapped in her car."I rushed to her car and she was also trying to rescue herself. We got her out and we took her to the truck after one woman helped her with CPR. She was not as fortunate as she died."Bianca Lee Bird is one of the motorists who tried to help the woman.Bird who is based in Linmeyer in Germiston also attributed her bravery to a higher power."I thank God for giving me the strength to not run away but help the people and save as many people as we could save and get the people who were shocked to help other people."Both Bird and Dindiswayo said they had never seen anything like the flood before."I have been a long distance truck driver for three years and I come across grisly accidents all the time but I have never seen anything like this. I am still shaken at what I saw and I still can't believe it all happened right before my eyes " Dindiswayo said.Bird said: "I am very traumatised. I am taking a bit of strain I think. I am feeling a bit down obviously because of the trauma."Hundreds of messages of appreciation for them are being shared on social media.Boni Delport commented "Thank you Lucas and Vuyani - you are awesome heroes".Carola Kalix McDonald posted "Amazing happy to have heroes like that in our society" while Elize Botes said "...well done guys you are beautiful souls".Patrick Tracker Mabaso shared: "I'm telling u if we ignore politics and focus on real things that affect us we will go far... unite as one SOUTH AFRICA is ours. Lov u all".Dindiswayo Bird and Bota are among a number of people who were selfless in helping rescuing motorists from the raging floods.Photographs and a video of a group of men who made a human chain to help passengers off two taxis are also being shared on social media alongside messages of appreciation for their efforts. Makgala Molete commented on Facebook: "I think God is trying to show us that we need one another. I saw a video where blacks and whites were saving each other holding hands. UNITY!"The South African Weather Services have warned of more storms around Johannesburg on Thursday afternoon.- TMG Digital