France s only sex museum saw all of its 2000 item strong collection auctioned to an in-house and online audience earlier this month.Items included a forest of phalluses an 18th-century marble plaque of the Hindu deity Vishnu a picture of a topless Mona Lisa and a Salvador Dali painting with an eyebrow-raising title which sold for 20 608 euros.Some of the world s most famous sex-themed museums include those in Amsterdam New York Barcelona St Petersburg (which claims to have the preserved penis of Rasputin) and one in China that boasts over 3 000 exhibits.And if size counts then the Phallological Museum in Iceland s capital Reykjavik is on the up with the biggest collection of penises in the world. The penis museum houses almost 300 specimens from over 90 animals including the largest penis in the world that of a sperm whale. Taking pride of place at the entrance of the museum it is 1.70 metres tall weighs 75 kilogram and is preserved in formaldehyde.Aside from preserved penises that once belonged to animals ranging from mice to hamsters seals to polar bears there are also the dried variety hanging on the walls of the museum.Among the more bizarre objects on show are lampshades made from the bulls testicles penises belonging to trolls and elves which are invisible to sceptics and even a human penis the acquisition of which formed the basis of a Canadian documentary on the museum. South Africa does not have anything approximating a sex-themed museum but the country does have sexually explicit art exhibitions and collections. The latest of these SEX took place at Johannesburg s Stevenson Gallery from April to June. The provocative exhibition included performance art collective FAKA restaging a sex scene completely naked - from a men s-only sex club paintings sculptures the screening of pornographic films and lectures.The curator of the exhibition Lerato Bereng says that the gallery had never been that full. People were titillated excuse the pun by the idea of a sex exhibition and they engaged with the materials. I was surprised at how open people allowed themselves to be. Bereng believes that there is potentially room in South Africa for a museum of sexuality. There s a lot that s unsaid and untold I came across fascinating urban myths and legends once I began talking to people. Sex is one of the most common but least spoken about topics. I think there is a level of discussion to be had and it needs to be tied to socio political issues like the rights of sex workers. - TMG Digital/The Times