News of Segale's death surfaced on Monday and was followed by hundreds of tributes from fans. On Tuesday, radio hosts from across the country took to the airwaves to share their memories of the star.Metro FM's Glen Lewis recounted a time when he and Segale worked together on Radio Bop and were involved in an accident while running from the AWB."We got into an accident in Rustenberg and I remember him driving and screaming my name 'Louis,! Louis! Louis!' I have so many memories of him," Glen said.Glen's co-host on Metro FM's morning team Unathi Msengana also paid tribute to her former boss, calling him a true radio legend."He was such a happy person. Obsessed with music and radio. One of the last true true radio practitioners. He was obsessed with the rules of radio. He was so proud of South African music," Unathi added.DJ Fresh used his morning show on 5FM to pay tribute to Segale, revealing that the radio star gave him his big break on radio."My first ever radio gig was with Segale. When I was sending demo tapes to Radio Bop, he made sure that I met with management and delivered my demo tapes- that was the kind of guy that Segale was. Rest in peace. We will miss you. Radio will miss you," he said.Tim Modise shared his sadness at the news of Segale's passing, in a Twitter post on Monday.I've just learned with sadness that one of the passionate radio DJ's Aldrin Segale Mogotsi has passed on. Bless your soul my little brother Tim Modise (@TimModise) November 14, 2016I've just learned with sadness that one of the passionate radio DJ's Aldrin Segale Mogotsi has passed on. Bless your soul my little brotherSegale took to Twitter last week to open up about his health issues, hinting at the pain and helplessness he experienced in the days leading up to his passing.Mara health. Does it have to be this painful and one be so helpless? This past week alone I lost 2 friends. Am I next? RIP Mdoo &amp; Ken Modise AldrinSegaleMogotsi (@SegaleMogotsi) November 8, 2016Mara health. Does it have to be this painful and one be so helpless? This past week alone I lost 2 friends. Am I next? RIP Mdoo &amp; Ken Modise Find the hottest celebrity and entertainment news on TshisaLIVE or follow TshisaLIVE on Facebook and Twitter.