I was with friends at the opening night of The Father at the Fugard. Marius Weyers is Andre, an elderly man in the grips of dementia. Watching a tremendous actor performing a precisely written work in an intimate venue is a reminder of what theatre can do that screens cannot: connect you so viscerally with other human beings, offer a physical, electric, corporeal experience rather than merely a visual one. And also how it can shake you. There is a moment when Andre in a moment of clarity and terror realises he is alone among strangers, abandoned and confused. He cries out in fear for his long-dead mother and the moment was almost too powerful to endure.For me the play was an experience similar to being an arachnophobe and voluntarily deciding to watch a live performance by Otto Anansi and his All-Star Troupe of Dancing Spiders. I spend too much time in my life imagining what will happen when I'm old and age finally catches me.My father became physically weak as he neared the end, and that was difficult to watch because he had always been such a strong man, proud of his strength, but I am more afraid of mental decline, the slipping away of who you were, the erasure of faces you love. I'm afraid of what it would mean for the people around me."It's a good thing we don't have children," I told my wife. "Imagine what a burden it is to your kids. It would ruin their adult lives. Or even worse - what if it didn't ruin their lives? What if they just abandoned me? Imagine having such horrible children. After all I've done for them!""You're not going to have dementia," she said, because she could see I was working myself up into King Learish indignation about the imaginary ingratitude of imaginary offspring."My dad's mom ended up roaming the streets of Durban, demanding rent from the hotels because she thought she owned them all," I reminded her."Well," said my wife, who likes to look at the positive side of things, "at least she kept busy."It was art that upset me, so I turned to art for consolation. I've been listening all week to Leonard Cohen's final album, You Want It Darker. I've always shied away from Cohen, ever since a university girlfriend tried to get me to listen to him but let slip that she'd been introduced to him by some long-haired Canadian ex-boyfriend. It instantly became a matter of some importance to me to dismiss Leonard Cohen and his entire oeuvre and to forcibly argue that only wallies and worthless Canadians would find much in him to admire.But I was wrong, of course, and his last album is haunting and tear-making and deeply, quietly beautiful, in the way empty old churches are beautiful, in the way a candle is beautiful, even as it burns down and gutters. His voice is as deep as a stone sunken well, and the words hurt and lift you, the way candle wax spilling over the quick of your fingernails can be both painful and good. He died last week aged 82 but the album was released just a short while before that and it fills me with hope to consider his final months - working, creating, still deeply engaged in the things of life, still contributing.He was in great pain from the cancer that would kill him but he worked to the end on poems and lyrics, recording his final album on a blue medical chair in his living room. "Hineni," he says on the first track, that most beautiful of words, the word that Biblical prophets replied to the voice of God: "Here I am." It contains acceptance and readiness, but also the quality of being alert, ready to receive instruction or inspiration.Yesterday I went to my Uncle Jim's 100th birthday, at the same restaurant where he celebrated his 90th and 95th. He is bright and present and engaged, and his son flies home each year to see him and his grandchildren were at his side, holding his hand, taking up social duties on his behalf. He still takes pleasure from his garden and his family and TV sport and attractive women and a good apple crumble. Life means nothing, but also everything. I remember what he told me once: it's possible to have a good old age, but it's up to you to choose it, and then you have to get lucky.