Wits announced the signing of the defender on their official Twitter page saying simply: Siboniso Gaxa is the newest Clever Boy. Welcome to the family. Gaxa s agent Glyn Binkin confirmed the signing of the player whose contract was not renewed by Chiefs in a clearout of 17 players during the off-season.Gaxa believed he had signed an extension to his contract with Chiefs and subsequently took his ex-club to the Premier Soccer League s Dispute Resolution Chamber (DRC) seeking compensation. The dispute with Chiefs is ongoing. But the dispute can t stop him from finding a new club Binkin said on Monday. The hearing has been heard the heads of argument were presented on November 7 and we are now waiting for the finding from the PSL DRC in the coming weeks. Gaxa (32) will be well aware of the competition he faces earning a place at Wits where Nazeer Allie made the right-back position his own with a strong 2015-16 season.Wits also have Bafana Bafana international Siyabonga Nhlapo as a more-than capable back-up at right-back.Binkin said Wits participation in the Caf Champions League from February and the player s versatility having also played at centreback should open spaces for Gaxa at Wits.Gaxa becomes the fourth player who was part of Wits coach Gavin Hunt s three-time-in-succession PSL champions SuperSport United team (2008 to 2010) to reunite with the coach at Wits following former teammates Daine Klate Elias Pelembe and Bongani Khumalo. Gavin Hunt first of all knows the player and he knows the experience and versatility of the player Siboniso can play right across the back Binkin said. And competition is healthy. Gavin knows what his ex-SuperSport players can offer. And Siboniso s a model professional on and off the field of play. Wits have a lot of exciting young players coming through at the club and a player like Siboniso can be a role model to those players. Gaxa was the starting right-back for Carlos Alberto Parreira s Bafana at the 2010 World Cup.His personal honours include the three league titles at SuperSport two more at Chiefs and four cup winners medals.TMG Digital/TMG Sport