Speaking to reporters in Parliament on Thursday Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform Gugile Nkwinti and National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams said the department made progress in acquiring productive agricultural land for redistribution. The acquisitions were empowered by laws including the Restitution Act the Security of Tenure Act the Land Reform Act and the Provision of Land Assistance Act. The exercise uncovered the exclusion of rightful owners from decision making where the land was concerned and the stripping of assets from agricultural land. Abrahams told reporters that the NPA got involved after receiving complaints from ordinary South Africans about the circumstances under which farms were acquired and transferred. Fifteen of the farms with a total value of R142 million have since been transferred back the department. Transfer is however pending on the remainder of the farms. Approximately 12 cases have been referred for criminal investigation and prosecution said Abrahams. Minister Nkwinti said the office of the Valuer General also assisted the department to save R15 million in land acquisitions as it managed to avoid overpricing by colluding land owners and department officials. Since the Valuer General was established there was a negotiation and got a price and the last word is that of the Valuer General because that office applies a wider test than that of market value. When you acquire land in the public interest market value is only one factor Nkwinti said. Head of the Special Investigating Unit Andy Mothibi said a complete report of the progress made in recovering the farms will be ready to be sent to President Jacob Zuma s office before the end of November. Once we start an investigation the teams put together investigate the allegations covered in the proclamation. If the process if we come across evidence of criminality or something that can justify prosecution or civil proceedings we put together documents relating to that evidence and relate those matters to the relevant authorities said Mothibi. Acting special director of Public Prosecutions Advocate Knorx Molelle said the NPA arrested eight people including sellers farmers and officials implicated in colluding to inflate prices of farms. - TMG Digital/BusinessLIVE