The man whose name is known to TMG Digital said he came under attack and has video footage of the alleged assault which took place in the upmarket suburb of Umhlanga on Monday. He claimed he was he turned away from Durban Central police station and that police in Durban North told him they would not open a case of assault unless a witness could also testify on his behalf.The driver said that he was disheartened by the conduct of police.The 26 year-old from Ixopo who now lives in KwaMashu said he returned to the Durban North police station on Thursday morning with his witness the person who filmed the incident. I m afraid to go back to work he said speaking from the police station. I m still traumatised and I feel I am being watched because I don t know what I had done in the first place. But more traumatic is the police who are refusing to assist me. Is it because Mpisane is one of their own? I m told he was a cop he said.He said that police had eventually agreed to assist him on Thursday and gave him a J88 form for his injuries to be assessed by a doctor.Recounting the moments after the incident he said a man by the name of Paul flagged him down and offered to send him the video via WhatsApp.A video of the incident shows two well-dressed men with pistols on their hips alighting from a BMW X5. They proceed to hit the driver as he sits in a white Toyota on Umhlanga Rocks Drive.The vehicle they drove a dark-coloured BMW X5 is registered in Mpisane s name.Mpisane s cellphone was switched off on Thursday morning.The Mercury newspaper quoted the construction mogul and soccer boss as saying that he pledged to investigate the incident and confirmed the vehicle was registered in his name. I condemn bad driving and violence on the road. I am going to investigate the incident internally. If any of my employees are found to have committed an offence they will face internal disciplinary processes Mpisane told the newspaper.The police have yet to respond to questions. TMG Digital