That is if the crowd that gathered outside the High Court in Cape Town on Wednesday have their way. They sang: Let Hlaudi lead and brandished banners that read: Hlaudi is simply the best hands off Hlaudi. The Democratic Alliance is asking the court to have Motsoeneng removed from the public broadcaster arguing that he is an unethical manipulative fraudster who has destroyed any semblance of good corporate governance at the SABC .But the group showing their support for him outside court are singing from a different hymn book. Equally controversial Cape Town councillor and Ses Khona leader Andile Lili infamous for throwing poo in public spaces including the Cape Town International Airport accused the DA of waging a racist attack on Motsoeneng.Ses Khona has frequently voiced support for Motsoeneng during his numerous court skirmishes. We said this from the beginning that Hlaudi is being targeted for his transformation stance at the SABC said Lili. We are not interested in his qualifications we are interested in the transformation of public institutions. The questions about the SABC board are immaterial. There have been several boards dating back to apartheid all of them did nothing to transform the SABC. Our belief is that white people believe that black people are useless and they undermine the institutions they lead he said.DA leader Mmusi Maimane was not spared. Maimane is the toy boy of the white people and he knows that said Lili.Setshwana Chabeli echoed Lili s sentiments. She travelled all the way from Bloemfontein to show her support. I am from a formation called Friends of Hlaudi and I am here to pledge my support to Hlaudi said Chabeli. The message we are getting is that there is white resistance from the DA. Hlaudi has brought a lot of changes at the SABC that are not benefiting white people. Employees who had one-year contracts now have five-year contracts. Then the elephant in the room emerged Motsoeneng s lack of a matric qualification. Who says Hlaudi is not qualified to do that job asked Chabeli. The same white people who oppressed us didn t allow Hlaudi to study. But he managed to study under the circumstances. Matric was not a requirement when Hlaudi applied for a job at the SABC. If that was the case (the DA) must show us the job advert. The stance of Motsoeneng s supporters resembles his submissions to the court. In court papers Motsoeneng said his employment at the SABC has been beneficial to the broadcaster. I highlight that on my appointment as acting chief operations officer in 2011 I led a turnaround strategy that (overturned) the SABC s dismal financial state he argues. Indeed I mention that the first time the SABC realised any profit was in 2013 under my stewardship when the SABC ended the financial year with a positive cash balance of R1.4bn. I remain competent and able to discharge a function. The matter continues.