Last season s pink ball which was used during the first ever day/night match in the oldest format between Australia and New Zealand had a green seam and swung prodigiously.The latest model sports a black seam - all the better for batsmen to be able to see it - and an extra coat of lacquer.The grass on the pitch meanwhile is down to six millimetres. Last year it was eight millimetres long.Those measures organisers hope will make Thursday s match last longer than the not quite three days it took the Aussies to win a year ago.Not that the home side look like winning much these days having slumped to their fifth consecutive Test defeat against South Africa in Hobart - which earned the visitors the series 2-0.Which took the wind out of the sails of the Adelaide test which remained of interest only because of the pink ball and the prospect of South Africa becoming the first team to beat Australia 3-0 at home.And because the game might have been played without Faf du Plessis who was fined 100% of his match fee on Tuesday for ball-tampering in Hobart.But Du Plessis was not banned and South Africa will aim to turn their indignance at their captain s plight into even more fiery play on the field.Will the pink ball and the unusual conditions help or hinder them in that cause? Two-thirds of the game is in the day Du Plessis said. To call it a day/night test match might make you think everything s happening at night. But actually ... it s only an hour from eight to nine and 9.30pm is cut-off time that happens at night. It s actually a really short time with the pink ball (under the floodlights). We ve practised with it and it seems pretty normal. The new ball swings and then it gets a bit soft and then at dusk it gets a bit tricky again. It s something we will have to go through as a team. We ve practised we ve played warm-up games and it seems OK it seems fine. But you can only really test it in a test-match environment when it s full 100% and you go five gears all in. Nevermind all that. How might Du Plessis shine the ball now that his favoured technique of using mints as an artificial - and therefore illegal - aid has been exposed? I ll probably just touch my finger (to my mouth) and get a little bit of spit on it he said. There s going to be a lot of eyes on everyone now I m sure; not just on the South African team but on the Australians as well. Possibly (mints will be used) just for bad breath now not for shining the ball anymore. But I still feel about it exactly the same way whether I was guilty or not whether the sentence was different or not. I suppose that s needs to change now but possibly for this one game I just need to stay away from the mints. Talking about change the Australians - who made six changes to their squad of 12 after Hobart - have included five new faces for Adelaide.Batsmen Matt Renshaw Peter Handscomb and Nic Maddinson wicketkeeper Matthew Wade and fast bowler Jackson Bird have come in for Joe Burns Adam Voges Callum Ferguson Peter Nevill and Joe Mennie.South Africa could rest Vernon Philander who has been struggling with a shoulder problem after a mid-pitch collision with Steve Smith in Hobart.Morne Morkel who has been out with a back injury would be the logical replacement.But left-arm wrist spinner Tabraiz Shamsi who took four wickets in a pink-ball day/night warm-up match in Melbourne on Saturday might make his debut. - TMG Digital