In what might be a tough moment to swallow for Chiefs Downs are set to display a star on their jerseys which clubs can opt to display to mark important achievements against Amakhosi in their Premier League match at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday.Sundowns became the second South African club and first in 21 years since Orlando Pirates to become African champions lifting the Caf Champions League [ACL] trophy with their victory against Zamalek in the final last month.Chiefs have been the butt of the usual round of humour on social media since as they now are the one club of SA s big three who cannot display the prestigious star above their emblem.Mosimane was asked if he remains hungry at Sundowns having won two cup trophies and two league titles there and achieved his target of becoming African champions.He said Downs have a long way to go matching the record of clubs such as five-time ACL champions Zamalek and their Cairo neighbours and eight-time winners Al Ahly. I m happy here. Let Sundowns win the Super Cup let Sundowns win another star. Let Sundowns have a different star Mosimane said. I was looking at Al Ahly they have got three stars on top because they won their league 39 times and they have one more to put four stars. They have eight underneath for the Champions League. I look at my badge it s one. But by the way 1907 [Ahly s founding year] remember and 1970 [Downs forming year] it s relative. It s the way you want to look at it. OK so I would rather compete with 1970. I won t even compete with Pirates because they are 1937. Searching for teams in a similar age bracket to Downs Mosimane said: I ll compete with what are Chiefs 1970 also? OK so they don t have as star so we are one up on them the coach grinned.Chiefs could quite happily respond that their domestic trophy record in South Africa is unparalleled and they have won a trophy in Africa the less prestigious and now defunct Cup Winners Cup.But it might still be tough for as proud a club as Amakhosi to line up across from Downs on the historic occasion when the Brazilians sport their star for the first time. TMG Sport