On Monday Rabalago said this is the rationale behind using hazardous materials when praying for healing. We are glorifying God. We want God to be seen. We are saying with God anything is possible. The 24-year-old pastor from Limpopo who also calls himself the Detective was photographed spraying Doom on worshippers during a service and a prayer meeting for healing at the weekend causing an outcry on social media platforms.Rabalago told TMG Digital he first debuted his Doom can at a prayer gathering on Friday night. It's not a matter of inspiration. When one is inspired you are copying. It's not a matter of inspiration. No one inspired me. I just believe in God for anything. We can use anything that you believe to heal people. In the book of Genesis the spirit of God was hovering over the water. [Therefore] everything here on Earth belongs to God. Petrol belongs to God. Doom belongs to God. Some people came with injuries but we sprayed them and they were healed. Flowers and grass are also on the list of items Rabalago has used to cure congregation members.Rabalago could not say how many congregants were healed by Doom this weekend but invited naysayers to read the testimonies he posted on his church's Facebook page.In one such post on the Mount Zion General Assembly's (MZGA) page it is claimed that a Mrs Mitala was healed from an ulcer using Doom.A photograph of the woman is captioned: Mrs Mitala. The Prophet called sick people to come foward. She went to the forth and told the Prophet that she suffers from ulcer. The Prophet sprayed doom on her and she recived her healing and and deliverance. We give God the glory! In another post MZGA shared a prophecy Rabalago made following the spraying of Tebatjo Mathekga. 'They gave you a ball and you tried to chest it thats why you are feeling pain ' the prophet said. The gentleman confirms and explains that he couldn't run long distances because of the pain. He then recieves healing by being sprayed doom. The Prophet sees him wearing a black and white t-shirt. 'You are going to play for Orlando Pirates ' prophesied the lion. The Detective thanks God for his success. Rabalago refused requests to interview the worshippers who had been healed according to his claims. He said no one has been injured during his prayer sessions and accused the media of spreading falsehoods on this score.When asked at what cost he administers the healing power of Doom he said it's free of charge. The anointing I've got is not for sale. To his critics Rabalago preaches love. I love them. Their eyes will be opened. They will know the reality of who God is. They are critics because they don't know. I've already forgiven them. They are my brothers. I love them. They don't know what they are doing but love covers a multitude of sins. Doom is an insecticide spray for household use.Among the warnings on a can of Doom is that it can cause irritation of the skin eyes and mucous membranes and it advises users to keep out of reach of uninformed persons and avoid contact with skin eyes and clothing . In case of contact wash thoroughly with soap and lukewarm water if misuse results in accidental illness consult a doctor immediately. Spokesperson for the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of Cultural Religious and Linguistic Communities Richard Mkholo said it would issue a statement on Rabalago's teachings later on Monday.The commission has probed the alleged abuse of people's belief systems by pastors following complaints of pastors feeding people grass petrol and snakes.- TMG Digital