In one of the more severe cases, a 17-year-old girl is fighting for her life following an attempted suicide after she was allegedly assaulted while asleep at the hostel.Now parents and pupils accuse the school management and the disbanded school governing body of destroying in less than a year what took more than four decades to build.Past pupils have decried the current state of the school, calling it "disgusting, sickening and heartbreaking" on the past pupils Facebook page.Raymond Read, an old boy, warned his former classmates not to bother visiting the school, saying: "There's barely anything left to see and you'll just end up ruining your day." David Myles, who matriculated in 1982, described his years at the school as "the most awesome times of my childhood" but said the school was now "disgusting ... what happened to: 'Not for us ... but for those who are to come?' (the school motto)?"A visit by The Times to the school revealed algae-infested showers, broken windows, doors and damp walls.Boys, unable to enter their hostel dormitory through the doors, climbed through a window to enter and exit the building.The Grade 11 pupil's suicide note, which reads, in part that "that school just broke me" lifted the lid on the conditions at the school and at the hostel in particular.Her mother said her daughter started acting strangely towards the end of August and had to be hospitalised for panic attacks.It emerged the source of her daughter's mental state was large quantities of blood that she saw in the hostel after a girl aborted a baby, she said.When she returned to the school, she was allegedly badly assaulted while asleep by five girls whom she had reported to the matron for having sex with boys in the girls' hostel rooms. The mother's attempts to get the Limpopo education MEC Ishmael Kgetjepe to assist failed."I sent him a Whatsapp message after the assault. He did not respond, though I could see that he had read the message" she said.On Friday several parents converged on the school near Bela Bela, Limpopo, to remove their children and their belongings.A Rustenburg teacher, who did not want be named because she works for the Basic Education Department, said she was horrified by "nasty scars" on the back of her 17-year-old son as he took a shower during the holidays.When probed, her son, a Grade 10 pupil, said he and six other pupils were taken to a soccer field at night, forced to the ground and the matrics took turns whipping them with belts, she said.This prompted her to look into the school, leading to her discovery that it was far from the "flowery" descriptions given on the website."No right-thinking parent would bring a child here. Since starting at this school this year my son has gone from a straight A pupil to not passing a single term.''He was wearing a 36 when he started here but now his size has dropped to 32. Is this what I have paid R30000 in school fees for? I teach in a no-fee school and it is 10 times better than this excuse of a school," she said.A Student Representative Council member who did not want to be named said discipline had disappeared at the school, with pupils doing as they pleased, pointing to a couple kissing and fondling each other on the stands of a soccer field to prove his point."I just want to pass matric and get out of this hellhole," he said.Parents and pupils blame the principal, Chris Mabunda, who took over in March last year."Suddenly there was no sports happening, the school premises were filthy, things were not fixed and when we asked we were targeted. Student structures were weakened and pupils divided. The principal drinks alcohol with pupils and police regularly remove stashes of drugs from the hostels where pupils smoke dagga openly," the teenager said.Last year's matric pass rate was 90.6%, down from 97.8% in 2014.The principal could not be reached for comment. The education department said he was on sick leave. The provincial education department said it was aware of the allegations and an investigation was instituted on November 1.Spokesman Naledzani Rasila said the allegations were serious. 