This is the view of political analyst Zamikhaya Maseti following Nehawu's statement on Tuesday in which the country's largest public sector union - with some 235 000 members - called for Zuma to step down. Nehawu is the first Cosatu-affiliated union to publicly call for Zuma's head. Maseti said the call made by Nehawu was an indication that support was shrinking for Cosatu s president Sdumo Dlamini who is known to back Zuma. Maybe more affiliates of Cosatu will follow. The NUM (National Union of Mineworkers) may be the second one. The ground is really shifting under Sdumo Dlamini he said. Maseti said it was doubtful Zuma would resign despite the calls from various sectors of society but pressure would mount if ANC branches joined these demands. ANC branches are very key. They are the one who can talk about an elective conference Unless they add their voices to these calls Zuma is not going anywhere. President Jacob Zuma will not voluntary step down he said. The move by Nehawu one of the largest Cosatu affiliates comes amid growing opposition to Zuma within the ANC and the alliance. In a statement after a meeting of its national executive committee on Tuesday Nehawu said the situation in South Africa had now become untenable. Whilst we believe that no single individual even as President of the country can be solely responsible for all the socio-economic and political ills in our society and whilst we appreciate that Comrade Jacob Zuma has served our struggle well over the years the organised working class cannot stand idle by and be silent when it is clear that the revolution is taking a disastrous trajectory as it needlessly lurches from crisis to crisis the union said. Therefore Nehawu calls on Comrade Jacob Zuma to take the honourable and courageous decision in the interests of the ANC and our people by resigning as the President of South Africa. The union wants Zuma out so that by the time the ANC contests the 2019 election he would no longer be head of state or ANC president. It also called on the ANC to make a unifying decision regarding ANC succession by ensuring that the party's tradition was upheld for deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa succeeded Zuma.