Letsholonyane is playing some of the best football of his life at United and is perhaps one of football s delectable ironies his former employers Chiefs who decided against renewing his contract in May have continued to struggle while his star has shone brighter since his departureThe midfielder s name was bound to come up at Naturena as Chiefs prepare to host a United side teeming with many of their former players.Midfielder George Maluleka conceded that they have been watching Letsholonyane with a little more than a passing interest and they expect a difficult evening at Soccer City. Well it is going to be the same as when I was still at Ajax Cape Town or SuperSport United and playing against him (when Letsholonyane was still at Chiefs) Maluleka said. As you know Yeye is a quality player and I will never take anything away from him. At the moment he is on form and I can t say how I am going to stop him. I think on the day the team that does very well with the players they have (will win). If we do very well and we have the togetherness on the day then I think we have a very good chance. But Yeye is not playing alone also and he has got his own soldiers rallying behind him. While the PSL standings could change by Wednesday the fourth-placed United are level on points with Chiefs (16 points) but are above the fifth-placed AmaKhosi on the table by virtue of a superior goal difference.Matches between the two have an added attraction and often resemble a reunion of former classmates.United have a Chiefs feel about them and there was a time last season when AmaKhosi football manager Bobby Motaung angrily warned Briton Stuart Baxter who is a former Chiefs coach to stay away from his players.Besides Baxter and Letsholonyane the other former Chiefs employees are centreback Morgan Gould left-back Keegan Ritchie goalkeeper Reyaad Pieterse and Tefu Mashamaite.Mashamaite who joined United in September after a season at Swedish club BK H cken was the fifth signing of a player with whom Baxter won league and cup doubles at Chiefs in 2012-13 and 2014-15.Chiefs are coming back from a 2-1 defeat to Mamelodi Sundowns at the weekend and will be desperate to avoid a defeat to another title contending side within a matters of days.Maluleka himself a former United player said they would pick up the pieces and make sure that they are in a positive frame of mind by the time walk out of the Soccer City tunnel. On the day if we do all the right things and make sure that we get our objectives right then I think we can move forward as a team. We need to make sure that we focus on ourselves and make sure we do all the right things and we should be able to pull through. - TMG Digital