PSL rules and clampdowns continually tighten up on coaches and their right to express criticism on everything from refereeing and scheduling of fixtures to the decisions of the league.Nonetheless Downs forthright coach has felt the need to speak out again his latest issue being that SuperSport United played their midweek league fixture ahead of Saturday s Telkom Knockout quarterfinal at Lucas Moripe Stadium on Tuesday and Sundowns on Wednesday.SuperSport now famously thrashed Orlando Pirates 6-1 in their league match in Nelspruit on Tuesday night then Sundowns clinically beat Polokwane City 2-0 at Peter Mokaba Stadium on Wednesday night meaning Downs have had one day less rest for the Telkom quarter.Speaking on Downs juggling of the Caf Champions League (ACL) PSL and cup competitions Mosimane said: When you win the ACL it takes nine months and in that time you also play the local league and two cups in-between and you come up against fresh teams. We play SuperSport on Saturday they played on Tuesday and we played on Wednesday. But it s not a complaint. And the fixtures are like that you can t change the fixtures. And when you try you speak it s a problem. Because I would have liked to play on Tuesday too to have enough rest. But I have taken punches throughout my career. And when I speak because I have to sometimes and I have the right to; [late former president Nelson] Mandela said we have to speak. For so long we didn t speak so now when we have the chance we have to. And when I speak I m always in trouble. But what I know is I tell the truth. I never lie. And when it s Pitso who s talking it s He s always talking he s talkative and people don t look at the facts. I am right. On Saturday I don t know where I m sitting. It s life. But I talk about it. And then it s Pitso who s a problem. But you are dealing with me in my profession you deal with me in football I pay attention to football. It s my profession I am a specialist in that. I m a hawk. I will always look. Whenever there s something that compromises me I will speak about it. But it will put me into trouble. So be it. Mosimane has had reason to express dissatisfaction recently. The fixtures schedule his side were handed as a result of the PSL refusing to postpone Downs midweek games on either side of the Champions League semifinals against Zesco United was disgraceful.It has irked the coach more that on becoming something of a national hero winning the Champions League with the 3-1 aggregate victory against Zamalek he has been slapped with a charge of bringing the PSL into disrepute.In this case Mosimane was wrong. He flouted rules ahead of his side s 3-1 MTN8 semifinal victory against SuperSport United at Loftus in late August resulting in both sides farcically warming up ahead of the game on the same side of the field.The coach though and he will surely have support from his PSL compatriots on this point who are regularly fined for comments they make to the press especially on refereeing seems just to want the right to express his opinion on these matters without fear of censure.TMG Digital/TMG Sport