The TimesLive team decided to take a (tongue-in-cheek) leaf from the Gupta playbook and pick a new cabinet.Yusuf Abramjee who got the tourism minister s job in our mock line-up unveiled on Thursday responded on Facebook: I am waiting for the call!! Comments on our state recovery team headed by "president" Pravin Gordhan and "deputy president" Thuli Madonsela were generally positive With a team like that SA can only win said Erik Grobbelaar.But some readers saw speed-bumps ahead. Our choice of former Free State University rector Jonathan Jansen to replace Blade Nzimande as higher education minister did not impress Alexander Buitendag. He s probably one of the worst things to happen to tertiary education he commented.Rhulani Khosa said our team was still bloated with a lot of patronage and Luyanda Mhlanga added: Not bad but they will debate forever. Reader Dorrien Venables provided the most comprehensive response beginning by criticising the patronage that saw Vytjie Mentor appointed "minister of public service and administration" as a reward for pointing the finger at President Jacob Zuma and the Guptas.Venables added: I would keep Derek Hanekom at tourism (Democratic Alliance higher education spokesman) Belinda Bozzoli should be at higher education possibly (the DA s) Wilmot James at health. (Western Cape economic opportunities MEC) Alan Winde should come in for economic development and (DA finance spokesman) Tim Harris for trade and industry. Mcebisi Jonas should be the next finance minister with David Maynier (of the DA) as deputy and possibly make Trevor Manuel minister in the presidency. Somebody like (businessman) Alan Knott-Craig (Snr) or (former e.tv chief) Marcel Golding at communications. Then (former deputy chief justice) Dikgang Moseneke at justice. Former justices Zak Yakoob and Kate O'Regan could be special advisers. Alan Gaston said it was exciting to see the depth of talent available adding: SA is not short of good apples we just have to get rid of the bad ones. Our decision to retain Aaron Motsoaledi as health minister delighted Amukelani Isaac Gazankulu while Ntavhanyeni Lame Tshikovhele said Mark Heywood at social development is the only one who can take us forward .Other comments came from Jen Bernhardt ( We wish ... this would fast-track the economy and give the investors and the public so much confidence ) Thomas Arni Bosman ( 37 ministers? A bit much wouldn't you say? ) and Simphiwe Tom ( That would be a powerful team!!! ).But Ronald Hlatshwayo was probably the most perspicacious saying: Such a government will never work. 