Palacios has said his priorities are to have his players playing the Orlando Pirates way and enjoying their football again, while promising a clampdown on apparent disciplinary issues.Slowly, joining the dots from what Bucs caretaker-coach Palacios has to say, and events that have made the press in past weeks, the disaster that was Muhsin Ertugral s four months as head coach of the club starts to unravel.When Ertugral was filmed on a bystander s cellphone camera walking hurriedly from a confrontation with centreback Edwin Gyimah at Cape Town Airport in September, rather than taking charge of the situation, it appeared to reveal a lack of control of his squad by the coach.Now Palacios has openly admitted he will crack down on player indiscipline as a priority, with problems apparently wider than imagined. If you don t arrive on time then the change room will be closed. There is no way players will take cellphones to camp, Palacios proclaimed. I look at cellphones in camp and on the bus. If you receive bad news on the phone you cannot play. Players must understand that Orlando Pirates pays their salaries. I don t have military discipline. I will not stop the freedom of the players, but people need to understand simple aspects. I will not allow players to arrive smelling of liquor. We will have tests in every training session. I will not allow cigarettes. I will not allow ladies and friends at training. My training sessions are closed. While apparently losing control of his squad s off-field behaviour, on it Ertugral would have expected his team to play to the rigid lines, rules and constraints that have been his trademark a coaching modus operandi not popular with SA footballers.Throw in the coach s notorious temper and tantrums on the touchline in matches, and on the training field at each touch or pass that did not fit his rigid playing style and it was all just a toxic chemistry experiment bound for a spectacular meltdown.That came in the form of Bucs 6-1 thrashing at the hands of SuperSport United in Nelspruit on Tuesday night, and Ertugral s subsequent resignation sent by an email to Pirates chairman Irvin Khoza at 3.30am the following morning.Now Palacios says he wants to crack down where it s needed, off the field, but free things up where the players will appreciate it most on it. Given his popularity with the players, the yoke off the neck could well have the desired results needed to rescue a talented squad s season. In my first training I watched Gladwin Shitolo, the way he passed the ball; I saw players like Justice Chabalala and Abbubaker Mobara, Palacios said. Now, I will try to get these players to adapt to the Orlando Pirates system. I played in my first Iwisa Charity Spectacular against Pirates in 1985 for Witbank Black Aces we beat them 1-0 at Orlando Stadium. I enjoyed their football Teboho Moloi, Bashin Mahlangu, the late Ernest Makhanya. I know the history of this team. I don t call it shibobo, I call it talent I don t want to stop that. I cannot promise to win the league. But I do promise to work hard. When I had 12 games left [as caretaker] in 2011-12, the chairman did not ask me to win the league. But the players Benni McCarthy, Lucky Lekgwathi, Andile Jali made competition [were competitive]. I m not the best coach. I am a coach who learns from everyone. Maybe I will lose some games, maybe I will win games, but I will try to do my best this is all that is important for me. But the more important thing is to enjoy football. We need to play entertaining football. - TMG Digital