sA motion of no confidence against Zuma has been tabled and will be heard in Parliament next week.Eskom CEO Brian Molefe has cried foul over allegations levelled against him by former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela in her report and the Guptas have welcomed its release saying it will give them a chance to clear their names.The report titled State of Capture was released on Wednesday afternoon and implicated a number of senior government officials and their relationship with the influential Gupta family.Among them are Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Des van Rooyen Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane Molefe Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown and Zuma s son Duduzane.Van Rooyen said only that he noted the report and that he and his legal team would study it in detail. Zuma said he would give consideration to the contents of the report in order to ascertain whether it should be a subject of a court challenge.However the Democratic Alliance said it was going to lay criminal charges against the president as well charges under the Public Finance Management Act and the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act against Molefe Brown and Zwane.sThe opposition party also called for the immediate resignation of Brown Zwane Molefe and the Eskom board. It said if Molefe did not resign he should be fired.But Molefe said he was never given the chance to respond to allegations in Madonsela s report. The Public Protector never called me or Mr [Anoj] Singh our CFO. We gave her 120 files. She subpoenaed us but cancelled the meeting. That is my gripe we never got a chance to answer Molefe said at a media briefing on Thursday. He said the Public Protector had painted him with a corrupt brush.s During this period my children will be told your father is corrupt a clearly emotional Molefe said.Eskom chair Baldwin Ngubane pledged his support for his CEO.sThe Economic Freedom Fighters said the state capture report confirmed "everything" the party had been saying about the Gupta family "We ve been saying we ve been run by criminals. Everything we ve said has been confirmed in the report " EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu told SAfm on Thursday morning.The South African Council of Churches welcomed Madonsela's recommendation for a judicial inquiry into state capture to be appointed as a stroke of genius saying corruption was dividing the nation.The Gupta family said they have their own version of the claims made in the report and will present these once a commission of inquiry as recommended by Madonsela has been established.Speaking to TMG Digital on Thursday Gert van der Merwe the lawyer representing the Guptas said he had read the whole report and "in my humble view it boils down to the recommendations made by Thuli Madonsela that a judge be appointed and investigate"."We are happy [with the recommendation]. We have always wanted an opportunity to present our version on the allegations. There is nothing in this report that is a surprise." Van der Merwe said the family was obviously implicated."It's always been our case that we have a version. Hear what our version is and if we are wrong punish us " Van der Merwe said.- TMG Digital