SuperSport had defender Onismor Bhasera sent off for remonstrating with referee Victor Gomes in the 63rd minute.Sundowns dominated a goalless 120 minutes of normal and extra time against 11 men as much as against 10.The fast-paced, exciting Tshwane derby between newly-crowned African champions Downs and in-form SuperSport might not have produced goals, but lived up to its billing. For quality of football it frankly shamed its Soweto rival of last weekend.Downs might be the best team in the country, but it said something for SuperSport s organisation and class of their own that they held the Brazilians especially having played half of the two hours of football a man down.After resting players in their 2-0 league win away against Polokwane City on Wednesday, Downs coach Pitso Mosimane had his big guns back.Interestingly, he opted for the pace of winger Thapelo Morena at right-back, and started with Sibusiso Vilakazi ahead of Anthony Laffor on Downs attacking left.Stuart Baxter s Matsatsantsa were certainly on the back foot in the first half to Downs sheer class.In the opening 20 minutes Percy Tau tormented Matsatsantsa. Downs burgeoning talent was in space on the left in the third minute to force a block of his cross by Williams.Twice more Tau ran past SuperSport defenders like they were not there. He skipped past Clayton Daniels only for Khama Billiat to somehow misconnect his teammate s low cross.Then Tau passed Billiat through on goal, only for the Zimbabwean, again uncharacteristically, to sky his shot on the run.SuperSport, under Baxter, will always be dangerous on set pieces. They earned one three metres outside the box in the 23rd that Jeremy Brockie struck sweetly onto Kennedy Mweene s crossbar.Matsatsantsa had also stabilised at the back. Enough for Downs to only create one more half-chance before the break, Thapelo Morena getting a foot in to stab towards that man Tau, Ronwen Williams sliding in to collect the intercept.Early in the second half Reneilwe Letsholonyane won the ball off Wayne Arendse on the edge of the box to allow Brockie a shot at Mweene.But the threat of increased intensity from SuperSport only stirred a hornet s nest from Sundowns.They upped the tempo and Billiat appeared to be through but was brought down on the edge of SuperSport s area by Bhasera.Ref Gomes initially booked the left-back for what might have been a straight red. Bhasera remonstrated, and then did see red. Tebogo Langerman s free-kick was hit with no pace, and only placement, onto the left upright.Tau s attempt at a through-pass was deflected and looped to Vilakazi, who could not beat Williams.As can happen with 10 men, SuperSport worked for each other. And Downs, who have had a punishing schedule and last played on Wednesday, to SuperSport s Tuesday, ran out of steam.In injury time Matsatsantsa could even have won it. Substitute Aubrey Modiba beat the defence and crossed from the left, Langerman picking up at the far post but then laying off for opponent Letsholonyane, who was so surprised that he could only produce a tame shot.The strike landed at the feet of Michael Boxall, who was equally shocked and could not beat Mweene, even with Downs keeper lying down injured.The best chance of extra-time fell to Tau from a narrow angle, who was put off by Daniels s challenge and blasted over. Arendse also came close with a header.In the shootout, for Sundowns, Laffor blasted over their first kick and Williams saved Thabo Nthethe s third and Vilakazi s fourth. Ricardo Nascimento scored.Dean Furman, Clayton Daniels and Modiba slotted for SuperSport. - TMG Digital