 It was raining and it was just spinning and then there was a storm where I was standing it was very rough. A few seconds later everything was just flying people s iron roofs were just flying in the sky some people were screaming. They ran out of their homes and came to stand in the street as the storm took their roofs. When it was all done the cloud just twisted back into the sky. Geiger was describing the tornado which touched down in the neighbourhood of Ennerdale south of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.The twister is the second to hit Gauteng this year - more than 400 people were displaced when a tornado swept through homes in Tembisa in July.The tornado is said to have lasted at least two minutes.Palesa Ndlovu described the noise as the tornado approached her home: It made that sound similar to the one made by a goods train that is loud and very disturbing. There were seven of us in the house including two minor kids who were playing on the couch. Then things started falling and the roof was blown away. As well as her roof a kitchen and two bedrooms were badly damaged.Ndlovu said the youngsters had been affected by the tornado: I need to take my baby to the doctor because he has been having a red eye since this thing happened. The two-year-old hasn't been talking to us since the incident she only started talking this morning I think she is traumatised. Her neighbour Sibongile Gumede lost her whole house to the tornado. I was walking home from another extension. I was just close to home when I saw my whole house falling right in front of me. The kitchen is gone the dining room and the bedroom everything she said.Gumede who is a counsellor at the local clinic said she did not know how she was going to repair her house which she had just built in July. I really don't know how I am going to fix this. We slept in the car last night because of the damage to our house she said.Emergency services said about 50 homes had been damaged in the surburb while at least one injury was reported.Officials are in the area to assess the extent of the damage. TMG Digital