Du Plessis 118 not out anchored South Africa s first innings of 258/9 declared on the first day of the third test against Australia.And while the South African captain s performance was hailed by most in the crowd of 32 255 he was booed by a small section - presumably for being found guilty on Tuesday of ball-tampering during the second test in Hobart.Du Plessis said the crowd s disapproval which was at its loudest when he took guard had taken him by surprise. I was expecting a bit of hostility but not to that extent he said. When I came in I was quite aware of it and as the innings went on it disappeared a bit. But to be really honest when I got to a hundred I wasn t expecting to still get booed. So that was pretty disappointing. Not that the crowd s behaviour could take away from his satisfaction at digging South Africa out of the trouble they were in at 44/3 and 117/5. It was a big day for me to stand up as a captain and make sure I lead from the front Du Plessis said. To get through all that and this week in the manner that I did today makes me really proud of today s performance. Du Plessis scored an undefeated 110 on his test debut in Adelaide in November 2012 to save the second test of a series South Africa went on to win.This time the series had been won by the visitors before it arrived in Adelaide. I was extremely motivated today and that possibly helped me a little bit more Du Plessis said. Every ball almost I told myself that I wasn t satisfied. I was really driven today to make a big performance and it s great to get a hundred. Asked where he rated his innings among his own performances Du Plessis said My best (in terms of) everything that was required to get to this point where I m sitting now."Surprisingly technically I was the best (in) this whole series as well. I felt really good. But just in the context of everything else the best. I was really motivated. I felt it was a character test and the only way I could do it was by scoring runs. It needed that. I ve never been that switched on to say with every ball that it s not enough that I want to get a big one here. I was more motivated than I ve ever been. - TMG Digital