City won a sixth match in a row in all competitions when they defeated Maritzburg United 3-2 in the league at the same Athlone Stadium that will be used this weekend.But it came at a cost with the suspension of his first-choice centre-back duo of Tsepo Gumede and Robyn Johannes leaving Tinkler to find a totally new combination.The two specialist centre-backs left in the squad Renars Rode and Joseph Adjei have barely played in the last month and Tinkler has hinted at one of them starting. Tsepo and Robyn have been doing extremely well and obviously having lost them both in the same match creates a bit of a problem Tinkler said. But we have got options it s just about us making the right decision in terms of what option we go with. Also what s important is to sit with the team and explain how important it is that whoever comes in we must support them 100 percent. We have got 120 minutes of football to win the game and whoever that person is might struggle to last 120 minutes because they haven t played a lot."So we need to be there to back them up. Adjei is one of them but then we have got Rode who is also back to full fitness."Thato Mokeke has played at centre-back for me in previous games [Thamsanqa] Mkhize could also possibly go there."[Vincent] Kobola has played at centre-back in the past for Black Aces so it s not as if we don t have anybody."If we have to adapt someone to the position we have people who are more than capable. There are a lot of elements that I need to take into consideration."Some players haven t played for a while so that combination is very important."For example you don t want to use two central defenders who haven t played at all in the last month."That s not the type of combination you want so it has to be a mix. Tinkler has spoken all season about the need to avoid relegation as being the team s number one target this campaign.But with the side already having reached 20 points he admits they can start looking at other targets. It s fantastic to have got to this stage of the competition obviously for us the league has always been the focus."We have come off a very good run of results and we want to take this game extremely seriously because it is another opportunity to get to a final. I have explained to the players that it was important to get a result in the last game [against Maritzburg] to come into this match with confidence. I saw he [Free State Stars coach Giovanni Solinas] made five changes to his regular line-up against Orlando Pirates [on Wednesday] so that tells me he is giving the cup more importance than the league. It s going to be an extremely tough game they have knocked out two giants in Bidvest Wits and Kaizer Chiefs so we must not think it is going to be easy. City are appearing in their second semifinal of the season after losing 3-0 on aggregate to Bidvest Wits in the MTN8.Tinkler said they can only look on their campaign as a success if they can grab a trophy. People judge success by trophies won not by the fact you got to semis."I have been in many semis and many finals but what is more important is trophies won. And he confirmed that the players will receive their share of the prize-money if City go on to lift the trophy. The incentive is there half the prize money is theirs the coach said. - TMG Digital