Bafana Bafana coach Ephraim Shakes Mashaba said that at a personal level his team s 2-1 World Cup qualifying win against Senegal at Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane on Saturday was a second lease of life .Bafana might have benefitted from an incorrect penalty decision for handball awarded by Ghanaian referee Joseph Lamptey that Thulani Hlatshwayo scored from in the 44th minute.But for Thulani Serero s second three minutes later the build-up involving Mpho Makola and Keagan Dolly was of a high quality.And Serero s finish was in fact intentional and not an attempted pass if perhaps a little casual.And the fact that Bafana contained a Senegal bursting at the seams with players nailing down places at some of Europe s biggest clubs managed to achieve a two-goal lead and then defended it with grit and determination is a huge confidence boost for South Africa in the Russia 2018 qualifiers.Mashaba had been under pressure going into the game where so soon after Bafana s failure to qualify for the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations the coach could not afford a defeat. What does this win mean to me? It s a second lease of life. I was dead already the coach mused afterwards in the post-match press conference. Mashaba said Bafana played to their gameplan having done their homework on Senegal who boasted world class wingers in Liverpool s Sadio Mane on the right and Keita Balde of Lazio on the left were physically bigger than Bafana and oozed class in the manner in which they played the ball out of defence.Senegal substitute Cheikh Ndoye scored a 78th-minute equaliser that set up a tense final 10 minutes. We came knowing what to expect. We knew they would come very strong at us Mashaba said. We discussed that they were strong on the flanks we spoke about long balls into the box. And that s exactly what happened. What worries us is the question of the last 10 to 20 minutes of the game. We always play with a reverse gear. And it s not an easy thing to sort out because at that time everybody wants to defend. But I d like to say to the boys: 'Job well done' we did very well to defend the goals. And at least we go into the break of the fixtures with confidence. We are concerned about the break. When we qualified for Afcon 2015 we were playing back-to-back. Matches on a Saturday and then again on a Tuesday. Now it s four months without playing. But we can only hope most of the payers we select get game time at their clubs. That will ease the problem. Bafana went to four points and briefly held the lead of Group D until Burkina Faso beat Cape Verde Islands 2-0 away in Saturday s later game.Burkina Faso also have four points but a +2 goal difference to South Africa s +1. Senegal are second on three points and Cape Verde have zero.South Africa next play Cape Verde away on August 28 next year and at home on September 22.Bafana host Burkina Faso on October 2 then finish their campaign with the return match against Senegal on November 6. - TMG Digital