The singer's death was confirmed through a statement on his Facebook page on Thursday."It is with profound sorrow we report that legendary poet, songwriter and artist, Leonard Cohen has passed away. We have lost one of music's most revered and prolific visionaries," the statement read.Speaking to Rolling Stone, Leonard's son paid tribute to his father, saying that he had passed away in the knowledge that he had completed his best work."My father passed away peacefully at his home in Los Angeles with the knowledge that he had completed what he felt was one of his greatest records. He was writing up until his last moments with his unique brand of humor," his son, Adam, said.Twitter users have also reacted with shock and sadness to the news. The musician name was trending in the wake of his death, with users flooding the service with tributes.Leonard Cohen you songs spoke to the souls of many RIP for a legend has died #hallelujah #LeonardCohen Pascale (@PascaleScal888) November 11, 2016RIP Leonard Cohen. Your legacy will live on #legend #LeonardCohen Adele Germishuizen (@AdeleGer34) November 11, 2016R.I.P Leonard Cohen. Great Artist. Like a bird...on a wire".... missoullisa (@missoullisa) November 11, 2016Leonard Cohen you songs spoke to the souls of many RIP for a legend has died #hallelujah #LeonardCohenRIP Leonard Cohen. Your legacy will live on #legend #LeonardCohenR.I.P Leonard Cohen. Great Artist. Like a bird...on a wire".... Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa also paid tribute to the icon.We join the international music fraternity in mourning the passing of legendary &amp; highly influential Singer-songwriter Leonard Cohen. pic.twitter.com/NLTPRdcI5n Min. Nathi Mthethwa (@NathiMthethwaSA) November 11, 2016We join the international music fraternity in mourning the passing of legendary &amp; highly influential Singer-songwriter Leonard Cohen. pic.twitter.com/NLTPRdcI5n Find the hottest celebrity and entertainment news on TshisaLIVE or follow TshisaLIVE on Facebook and Twitter. 