You probably know of this racist incident because newspapers rightly covered the subject on their front pages. Political party operatives jostled for attention in the open court. Even the president made space in a speech to condemn the act as "shocking, painful and despicable in the extreme".The other court saga was a rape case in Nyanga, Cape Town, where 10 men raped a 13-year-old girl. You are less likely to have heard about this event, since most of the media barely gave it a glance.So here's the question: why do some of South Africa's horrors receive less attention than others? It helps of course to have video material available as well as photographs; online newspapers invite you to watch, in bold letters. We are revulsed by the dastardly act for which the evidence is as clear as daylight. But there is much more to our response to such a stomach-turning hate crime. We still have open wounds when it comes to our very recent racist past. So the country goes apoplectic when an obscure estate agent makes racist comments about black people on beaches on her Facebook page; everybody now knows the name Sparrow.Still, one has to ask: where is the social media outrage about this vicious gang-rape that has left a young girl scarred for the rest of her life? Is it because rape ranks lower than racism on the sensitivity barometer of South African society? These are difficult questions, but beware of this kind of comparison: "Ja, you talk about the white guys arresting a trespasser but what about rape and murder?" The goal behind these sentiments is not to draw attention to all crimes; it is to deflect attention away from an uncomfortable one - racism. Reports of anti-black racism drive conservative whites into a state of despair and the response often comes in the form of childish deflection: "But what about ... ?"Of course all crimes matter. My concern is why the horrors of rape, such as with this innocent child, do not also stir the passions to boiling point. Is it because rape is so common that its very everydayness, so to speak, has blunted our senses? Perhaps, but racism is also prevalent in the everyday lives of black South Africans. Why did the president not also come out in this case and say the 10 men should be punished "to the full extent of the law"?My sense is that we simply do not care as much about rape as we do about racism, or many other crimes, especially when it comes to ordinary people in impoverished communities. Rape happens so often that, at best, we raise an eyebrow rather than a fist. Unless of course rape happens in a posh suburb or on a university campus - which also occurred last week - and then the media jumps to attention with headlines about what universities should not be.All rape matters.And yet simply reacting does not help resolve matters. We have become an outrage-by-incident society. We wait for the next racist act and then, for about a week, celebrities, politicians and Joe Blow try to out-moralise each other with statements of outrage. Then everything goes quiet again until the next incident.Racism or rape will not recede because of sporadic noise from across society. It requires hard work within society itself to change attitudes and institutional arrangements through a range of interventions.Jailing racists or rapists hardly begins to alter the pervasive sense of ownership over and disrespect for other people's bodies. Starting with young children, core values must be taught at all institutions, from homes to religious organisations to cultural associations. We know this. But ventures of this kind will have little effect unless the leaders in our society, from politicians to priests to pedagogues, exemplify in their lives a deep and visible respect for the lives of others. We are not there, yet.Right now, we are obligated by the sheer act of being human to express our love and support for both the man in the coffin and the girl from Nyanga. And to change the society that makes these crimes possible in the first place.