He said the report contained explosive findings which showed just how rotten the ANC has become.Over the last seven years the ANC had radically transformed from a revolutionary movement with high moral standing to a mafia syndicate that operated only for the benefit of its cadres looting public money for personal gain Maimane charged on Sunday. And this syndicate is run by the Godfather of corruption and State Capture Jacob Zuma. In Zuma we have a President who was elected with 783 charges of fraud and corruption hanging over his head who aided and abetted Omar Al-Bashir - a warlord charged with genocide and allowed him to escape in violation of a court order the DA leader added. A President who the Constitutional Court found to be in violation of the Constitution and his Oath of Office regarding the now infamous Nkandla upgrades. A President who allowed the Gupta family to capture the state. From Eskom to the Waterkloof airbase the Guptas have free reign in South Africa at the expense of the law and the people of our country. And this is same President who is protected and promoted by the ANC at every juncture internally and externally Maimane told a media briefing in Johannesburg . Jacob Zuma is the ANC. And the ANC is Jacob Zuma. The ANC cannot self-correct. The ANC is beyond repair. The ANC has entered its final hours he added.Maimane urged South Africans not to lose hope in the country and its incredible potential adding that the past week had been a victory for Team SA. In the ongoing battle between the looters and those who love South Africa . Once we rid out country of the captors and the corrupt of the ANC we can move towards facing the real challenges in our country - unemployment education poverty and inequality. But our initial challenge is to fight to end this cancer of corruption in South Africa for good. Maimane added that the DA had decided to move a Motion of No Confidence in Zuma which would be debated in Parliament in the coming days. This is to remove the man at the very top of this cabal so that we can begin the journey of placing our country back on the right track again. Whether in government or opposition the DA will fight tirelessly through every mechanism possible to free our institutions and our governments from State Capture and corruption Maimane added.He said the ANC s project of State Capture was not just a national government phenomenon and was not restricted to just Jacob Zuma and his cronies. It permeated throughout every sphere of government. We are engaged with rooting out state capture corruption and nepotism at every level of government. Whether we are in government or in opposition we are determined to see it that every government in South Africa is clean transparent efficient and serves the people - not politicians Maimane asserted.TMG Digital