The match-23 for the Springboks first of four Outgoing Tour matches includes a total of nine uncapped players however no Test caps will be awarded for this international fixture. The newcomers in the starting line-up are RG Snyman (lock) Roelof Smit (flank) Jamba Ulengo (wing) Rohan Janse van Rensburg (inside centre) Francois Venter (outside centre) and Sergeal Petersen (wing). Tendai Mtawarira (prop) Pieter-Steph du Toit (lock) and Oupa Mohoje (flank) are the only players in the pack that started for the Springboks during their record 57-15 defeat against the All Blacks in Durban last month. There is a return to the starting team for tighthead Lourens Adriaanse in place of Vincent Koch who is not available for this match.Snyman will partner Du Toit the newly-crowned SA Rugby Player of the Year in the second row. Openside flanker Smit comes in for the injured Francois Louw while Jaco Kriel could also not be considered as a result of injury.The final change in the pack will see Nizaam Carr taking over the No 8 jersey from Warren Whiteley who is also not available for this match due to club commitments. The Boks will start with a revamped halfback pairing in Rudy Paige (scrumhalf) and new skipper Lambie (flyhalf) with regular captain Adriaan Strauss not in the match 23 as part of the succession planning in his position. The rest of the backline consists of Ulengo Janse van Rensburg Venter Petersen and Jesse Kriel who will start his first match for the Boks at fullback. Springbok coach Allister Coetzee said the Springboks aim was to improve after a difficult season but that it would not be easy against the Barbarians. The Barbarians play an attacking adventurous style of rugby and it will be a real test for our young side said Coetzee. They have an excellent world-renowned coach in Robbie Deans exciting young players in their side including some South Africans as well as several players who have a lot of Test match experience. We rewarded several young players for their performances in Super Rugby and the Currie Cup and we will approach this match as a Test although no caps will be awarded. It will be a really big occasion for our young players but we re excited to be giving them an opportunity. Even though some of the experienced players were last in action against New Zealand four weeks ago our preparation the past few weeks was really good. The excitement and enthusiasm of the new inclusions is contagious."In ideal circumstances I would ve preferred to give every player in the squad a run but this tour was also about introducing players who are on our radar for the future while also introducing them to the Springbok way and ethos."I am sure they will work even harder to stay in the squad. The Springboks have played the Barbarians in seven matches so far with the Baabaas leading 4-3 in wins. South Africa: 15 Jesse Kriel 14 Sergeal Petersen 13 Francois Venter 12 Rohan Janse van Rensburg 11 Jamba Ulengo 10 Patrick Lambie (captain) 9 Rudy Paige 8 Nizaam Carr 7 Teboho Mohoje 6 Roelof Smit 5 Pieter-Steph du Toit 4 Rudolf Snyman 3 Lourens Adriaanse 2 Malcolm Marx 1 Tendai Mtawarira.Replacements: Bongi Mbonambi 17 Lizo Gqoboka 18 Trevor Nyakane 19 Eben Etzebeth Jean-Luc du Preez 21 Piet van Zyl 22 Tiaan Schoeman 23 Ruan Combrinck. - TMG Digital