Black Brain Pictures has produced award-winning local shows such as City Ses'la, Ses' Top La, Abo Mzala and Thandeka's Diary.During an interview with TshisaLIVE, Tumi opened up about the financial troubles that Black Brain faced in 2008, saying that it was due to the recession and therefore, broadcasters weren't willing to commission their productions."It was at a time when all broadcasters weren't commissioning," she said."And at the time, SABC was about 80% of our turnover. So, when they were not commissioning, and not paying. This was from 2008 to 2012. So, for four years, there was nothing."Tumi also admitted that when they formed the company, they were young and reckless with money. It turns out that they hadn't saved for rainy days."And because we were young then, we had splashed out all our money."People had to see that we've made it. Now we own our company," she quipped.To pick themselves up, Tumi explained that Black Brain had to diversify, meaning that the company branched out into other avenues besides making television, such as corporate and advertising."To come out of that situation, we had to diversify. We also actively pursued corporate South Africa and ad agencies, so that we could start doing promos and ads. And doing campaigns for them," she revealed."That led us into doing strategy work as well. Our first client was Masana (a petroleum company). They liked us, and liked our energy and enthusiasm, even though we didn't actually know what we were doing. And yes, we learnt and we did it. It was a matter of taking what we know from TV and applying it to corporate and advertising."In addition to everything else they were doing at the time, Tumi, her husband Mandla Ngcongwane and singer Riot were working on their music as Gang of Instrumentals, which saw them releasing a chart-topping track, Woza December, which made waves across the country.This track (and album) also played a huge role in removing Black Brain from it's financial troubles."Also at the time, we (Gang of Instrumentals) had released Woza December which was doing very well. We used that money to pay for everything for Black Brain."It's funny, because a lot of people don't think about music being something to fall back on, and we did."