If there was an early sign that the cracks were already showing in the relationship between prickly Ertugral Pirates and the club s players it was a bust-up at Cape Town Airport between Bucs two-and-a-half month-old coach and Gyimah.In an incident captured on a cellphone camera on September 14 returning from a 2-1 victory against Ajax Cape Town the previous night Gyimah appeared to angrily remonstrate with Ertugral having to be restrained by captain Oupa Manyisa.Surprisingly and surely somewhat tardily though Bucs investigation into the incident has not been concluded almost two months later.Khoza said the manner of Ertugral s resignation via an email in the early hours of Wednesday morning following Bucs 6-1 PSL humbling at the hands of SuperSport United on Tuesday night denied the chairman a chance to quiz the coach on key issues. One of the issues I wanted to talk about is the outstanding matter of Gyimah Khoza said. There was an investigation instituted . The first part was concluded and the two were invited to give their evidence. We also invited the three captains to participate in this inquiry. And the coach at the time had to go to Turkey. We were hoping that during next week's Fifa break he would be given the chance to engage and give us his side of the story. But in sending the letter [email accepting Ertugral s resignation] to him I did indicate that I would be more happy to discuss it during his exit interview to conclude that part. Because the causative factor of that altercation whether it was something symptomatic something spur of the moment it s important for us to know that. Because we cannot leave it just unattended. We must conclude it because maybe there is a lesson to be learnt from that altercation. Whether there is a player who requires support in terms of psychological support or perhaps an issue of communication and challenges that are the problem."Or maybe the manner in which the coach communicates or other issues in the club that we are not aware of. It was very important as a learning experience to know if he gives us the chance. Pirates development head Augusto Palacios will serve as Pirates caretaker-coach following Ertugral s departure. - TMG Digital