1. Secret half-brotherWhile preparing a profile of the incoming first lady for GQ, reporter Julia Ioffe made a startling discovery: Melania's dad, Victor Knavs, fathered a secret son before marrying the model's mother.While Melania initially claimed that the reports were false, she later confronted with court documents, explained she had misunderstood the question and had known about her half-brother "for years".2. Only FLOTUS to have posed nakedThree years before she met Donald Trump, Melania posed nude for a French men's monthly magazine. The "bombshell" photo set, obtained by the New York Post, shows her lying naked in a bed alongside Scandinavian model Emma Eriksson.3. She isn't afraid to school DonaldDuring one of his campaign rallies, Donald told the crowd both his wife and his eldest daughter, Ivanka, don't entirely approve of his behaviour."My wife and my daughter said to me, 'Act presidential. Act presidential,'" he said.Melania insists she isn't shy when it comes to giving her husband political advice."I give him my opinions, many, many times," she told CNN."I don't agree with everything that he says but, you know, that is normal. I'm my own person, I tell him what I think. I'm standing very strong on the ground on my two feet and I'm my own person. And I think that's very important in the relationship."4. The Clintons attended her weddingBill and Hillary Clinton were among the 350 guests when Melania and Donald tied the knot at the groom's landmark Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida.According to GQ, Melania's wedding gown - a Dior dress with 1,500 crystals - was worth more than R1.3 million ($100,000) and it reportedly took 550 hours to make.5. Subjected to a creepy call with Howard SternIn 1999, when her husband was running for president of the Reform Party, Melania reportedly took part in a sexually charged conversation live on air with shock jock Howard Stern."Are you naked? Are you nude?" Howard asked Melania."Almost," she said."Ahhh, I've got my pants off already," replied Howard.Michelle Obama be like... Find the hottest celebrity and entertainment news on TshisaLIVE or follow TshisaLIVE on Facebook and Twitter.via GIPHY