The evergreen forward finished as top scorer in the Premier Soccer League last season with 14 goals with Mpumalanga Black Aces and already has four goals in the early stages of this campaign. He is also returning from national team duty for Zambia in Cameroon this past weekend where he was on the scoresheet in a 1-1 World Cup qualifier draw but did pick up an ankle injury that is worrying for Igesund. I will have a better picture about that tomorrow (Friday) Igesund told TMG Sport. There is also Franklin Cale who is out and Agustine Mbara who has a really bad bout of flu and did not train yesterday (Wednesday) and today (Thursday). But it is Mbesuma who Igesund will be most worried about as the 32-year-old continues to be the focal point of the attack for Highlands. He matures like fine wine Igesund said. Just like [Siyabonga] Nomvethe did for me at Moroka Swallows. I have been really fortunate to have those two because they bring so much more than just scoring goals. Collins is so motivated to do well he just wants to score goals and is always trying to get better. When players get to his age you do have to look after them a little bit more but he just wants to train and work hard. I have to sometimes hold him back and say Collins I need you fresh for the weekend not this afternoon s training session . He is a great professional and just really wants to score goals. Golden Arrows are having a fine season under coach Clinton Larsen who served as both a player and assistant under Igesund but the latter is hopeful that a second win of the season could spark a move up the table. It s a home game for us and you want to win those but we are playing against a good team who are number four in the table and have been good at getting results away from home. This Joburg tournament [Gauteng Champions of Champions] at the weekend allowed me to give some fringe players a run and the response from them was really good. So we will be up for it and try our best for the three points. - TMG Sport