DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said on Sunday it had now been 18 days since DA leader Mmusi Maimane had written to the Speaker Baleka Mbete stating the DA s intention to table a motion of no confidence in the President in terms of Section 102 of the Constitution and Rule 129 of the National Assembly. NA Rule 129 is clear about the urgency with which a motion of no confidence in president should be scheduled. Section 2 states: The Speaker must accord such motion of no confidence due priority and before scheduling it must consult with the Leader of Government Business and the Chief Whip . The inexplicable delay which has dogged this motion has been raised in numerous fora to no avail Steenhuisen asserted. Indeed Mbete raised the matter right at the start of the National Assembly Programming Committee (NAPC) on Thursday 3 November by assuring all those assembled that the request would receive prompt consideration. In reply my deputy Mike Waters proposed the 10 November sitting as an ideal opportunity for the debate which prompted little opposition Steenhuisen said.Despite this agreement next week s programme circulated on Friday evening had omitted the motion of no confidence thereby delaying it at least by another week he added. It was made clear in NAPC that Mbete only had to consult with the Leader of Government Business and the Chief Whip for the motion to be scheduled and that it did not need to be referred back to either the Chief Whips Forum or NAPC. To my mind there is no reason why the motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma cannot proceed at the earliest possible convenience. The Speaker s failure to schedule our motion of no confidence is only the latest effort by her office to shield the president from accountability. We would have hoped that the embarrassing defeats suffered by the Executive and Parliament more particularly in our courts of law would have shown the Speaker the futility of her delaying tactics. Sadly Mbete doesn t learn. We believe this latest ploy will only embolden those high-ranking ANC parliamentarians that have chosen to break rank in recent times to now support our motion and put a stop to the kleptocratic indefensible Zuma presidency Steenhuisen stated