In a statement it said: We as the SACC condemn all practices that put the message of Jesus Christ into disrepute. There is rampant abuse of the religiosity of poor communities by unscrupulous Doomsday prophets that emerge either as poison practitioners or money-sucking extortionists who prey on the faith of the desperate and the ignorant. Rabalago had posted photographs on Facebook of himself spraying Doom on Mount Zion General Assembly worshippers seeking healing at the weekend causing a social media outcry.The spray was used on the faces in the eyes and on the feet of congregants. According According to Rabalago many were healed.The SACC condemnation comes just days after a group representing 88 major denominations and churches in South Africa slammed in the strongest possible terms both the claims and the unlawful actions of self-styled Prophet Lethebo Rabalago of the Mount Zion General Assembly in Limpopo . While we believe that the Bible teaches that the Lord Jesus Christ healed people of all manner of diseases and ailments during His earthly ministry He always did so in a way that protected their dignity as human beings made in the image of God they said. On no occasion did He act in a way that caused physical harm to people or further endangered their health. As such these reported actions are completely contrary to both biblical teaching and practice the group stated. Furthermore spraying a known toxic liquid over another person and thereby causing them physical harm is both unlawful and illegal it added.The Commission for the Promotion and Protection of Cultural Religious and Linguistic Communities also condemned the Doom-wielding prophet saying: These kinds of practices were among the reasons why the CRL Rights Commission had to undertake a study to investigate the commercialisation of religion and the abuse of people's beliefs systems. Rabalago however was unrepentant despite the widespread criticism: Everything here on Earth belongs to God. Petrol belongs to God. Doom belongs to God. Some people came with injuries but we sprayed them and they were healed. It's not a matter of inspiration. When one is inspired you are copying. It's not a matter of inspiration. No one inspired me. I just believe in God for anything. We can use anything that you believe to heal people.Limpopo health boss wants Prophet of Doom to undergo psychiatric evaluation In the book of Genesis the spirit of God was hovering over the water. [Therefore] everything here on Earth belongs to God. Petrol belongs to God. Doom belongs to God. TMG Digital