Well that s the simplified version which emerged in the press conference following Bucs second win in succession under stand-in coach Palacios 1-0 against Free State Stars at Orlando Stadium on Saturday evening.That was also Pirates first league win under Palacios and they will be going in search of a second against Chippa United at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Tuesday night (7.30pm).Ndoro scored yet again with the lone goal against Stars.It was the Zimbabwean goal-ace s eighth strike in eight league games and incredibly one less than Bucs total as a team this season.The target-man revealed that Palacios had him playing goalkeeper in Friday s final training session before the match.Palacios explaining his change in approach since replacing the disciplinarian Mushin Ertugral whose preference is for complex playing systems said: I think there is a difference when the coach plays in the high level football and a difference when the coach is the lower football. I can feel it when the player is upset I can feel it when a player is not working."I can feel it when a player is not enjoying training."What I try to do is make the players enjoy themselves. That s what we are doing. Sometimes it s not about training two to three hours and Ndoro can tell you what we were doing on Friday. Ndoro sitting next to his coach responded: I was a goalkeeper in training. So that enjoyment that thing of your mind being relaxed and not thinking too much comes in. But when we are in camp that s when we focus on the game."It s a brand new thing like we are feeling brand new Its like the coach is giving us the right to express ourselves."Players like Thabo Rakhale now getting in the 18-area but previously we never saw him getting inside the box. And crossing balls."So it shows something new in the team and we are very happy about that. Palacios then continued: I know South African players. I know when I can shout at them. I know when I cannot shout at them. I know how they are happy I know how they can work. I ve been at Pirates for 20 years. Palacios brought in a similar approach of players enjoyment of football taking precedence in his previous stint as Pirates caretaker-coach and it became so popular that Bucs wrapped up the 2011-12 league title under the Peruvian-born coach.Bucs will be going for their third league and cup win they beat Highlands Park 2-1 in the Telkom Knockout in Palacios s first game under the caretaker in Tuesday s match against struggling Chippa.Dan Malesela s United have after a bright start to 2016-17 gone six league and cup matches without a win. - TMG Digital