Despite paying several hundred rands every month to rent the boxes in the belief that their valuables would be safe the small print of the contract they signed with the bank states that it will not be legally responsible to you under any circumstances for any loss or damage that may occur to the contents .The thieves reportedly tied up the lone security guard on duty at the bank and then spent at least 12 hours gaining access to the safety deposit box section with a jackhammer before loading the locked boxes into a waiting van. Some victims say bank staff revealed to them that 360 boxes were taken.A private security company is said to have patrolled the area during the heist but saw nothing out of place.Bob Naicker of Fourways got a call from FNB on Wednesday informing him of the theft of his box containing well over R1 million worth of 22-carat gold family jewellery including that of his wife Nalini and three generations of his family. I said there must have been a mistake because as far as I knew our jewellery was stored in a box at the bank s Fourways branch Naicker said. Then they told me they had moved my box and others to the Randburg branch in October because of a revamp at the Fourways branch. FNB told him they sent him a registered letter about the move but on investigation Naicker discovered they used an old PO address despite the bank having his current residential address on file thanks to the FICA process.Had he known about the move Naicker said he would probably have chosen to collect the box - for which he was paying R220 rental a month - as Randburg was an inconvenient location for the family.Nalini Naicker was close to tears when she spoke to TimesLIVE. My parents entrusted us to look after their jewellery including what they inherited from their parents and that of my brother and sister who have passed away. We are middle class people - apart from the sentimental value that was the only investment we had. Lee-Anne van Zyl CEO of FNB Points of Presence said safety box clients were required to insure the contents of the box which will always remain unknown to the bank .Ironically the Naickers chose to entrust their precious jewellery to the bank because they couldn't afford to insure it.Asked why the bank did not have Naicker s current address on file Van Zyl said PO Boxes did not form part of the bank s FICA process.In any event the small print of the bank s safety deposit box contract states: The bank has the right to move the storage container to another without your consent at the bank s sole discretion. Randburg businessman Andrew Frazer found out about the theft after his girlfriend went to the bank to add items to the box. She was told she couldn t enter the bank and that was it said Frazer who had 50 Kruger Rands worth about R900 000 in that box. But he only got official notification of the theft from FNB yesterday. I ve only been renting that box since September - at R500 a month he said.Fraser s daughter Kelly has started a social media campaign on behalf of the victims who are asking questions about the security measures put in place by the bank to safeguard the safety deposit boxes given the fact that the contents were of high value and the fact that the rental would have amounted to around R100 000 a month. Why was there only one security guard on duty? she asks. Why did the private security [company] not check in with the guard? Why did the gang have 12 -15 hours to pull off the heist? Where is the CCTV footage? Van Zyl would not provide any detail on the heist. We deeply regret the impact that this has had on our customers affected by the robbery she said. We are working closely with the South African Police Services and the organised crime unit. In light of the police investigation currently underway the bank is unable to provide further commentary regarding the details of the actual robbery. Fraser said: I trusted them with my investment. We had a contract. I paid them the R500 as my part of the deal. They failed to make sure the box was safe but thanks to the fine print despite the fact that they breached the contract I have no recourse. * If you are a victim of the heist contact Kelly Fraser by calling 083 287 8897 or emailing kellyfraser03@gmail.com.- TMG Digital/ConsumerLIVE