The former Bafana Bafana defender told the Ghost as the Pirates fans are known that the change in coaching rather than the lack of mental faculty on the part of the players is the main contributor to the team's poor fortunes so far this season. If it wasn't for the sudden resignation of Muhsin Ertugral I believe Pirates would be top or somewhere in the top four " said the 50-year-old Motale who was a pivotal member of the 995 African Champions League-winning Pirates team."If it wasn't for that resignation Pirates would be a well-constructed house right now. Ertugral quit on November 2 after guiding the club to two wins four draws and a defeat in his seven games in charge.He resigned in a huff after his first league defeat a 6-1 humiliation at the hands of SuperSport United to plunge the club into turmoil.Academy head of coaching Augusto Palacios was installed as interim coach the following day but the performances of the team continued to frustrate the fans.Motale said the key to the Buccaneers' revival could be the appointment of a permanent coach in the new year. I think what disturbed the momentum and system of play of the team was the sudden resignation of coach Ertugral. As is always the case when a coach goes and a new one comes in players may take some time to adapt to the new coach's way of doing things and his system of play. The sooner we get a permanent coach the better for the team. Palacios has guided the team to two wins two draws and as many defeats in his six matches in charge so far.Pirates are in 10th spot on the Absa Premiership log standings with 18 points from 13 matches. Look we still have 17 matches to play. I'm not panicking the fans should not start pushing panic buttons just yet said Motale. But look for Pirates it's a demand from the fans that Pirates should be somewhere in the top four at this stage of the season."That's a must for each and every season. This league is unpredictable."You win three games in a row and suddenly you are in the reckoning for the title."If we put in a good run of wins after the break then I'm sure we will be challenging come the end of the season. Motale who earned seven caps for Bafana scoring two goals said he had the full confidence in the current squad to take the team to another level. I don't think the team needs to go into the market in the coming transfer window."But if there is a quality player out there who will add a tremendous amount of value who is available then we can go for that player. But otherwise I think the current squad is talented and capable of taking this team where they belong which is at the top."I think we can win more silverware in the near future with this current crop of players Pirates have. - TMG Digital