Komphela s most recent exits from stadiums have been in the company of police and security personnel and the increasingly pressured coach admitted on Monday he is going through hell . Sometimes when I go through pressure and hell it is about who do I represent he said. Sometimes you have to take fire not because you deserve to be burnt but you take fire because you take fire on behalf of (the club). And when you suffer on behalf of (the club) you suffer with pleasure. When Mandela went 30 years in prison if he had known that he was doing it Mandela he would have come out on the first day or even heaven forbid committed suicide. But because he knew that he was fighting for a cause and he was representing millions that inspired him. Look at all activists all activists they go through hell and they endure the pain because they know they are not doing it for themselves. So the pain that I am going through I am going through it on behalf of the supporters and everybody here (at Kaizer Chiefs)...... but it is not nice. The once all-conquering Chiefs are a shadow of their dominant former selves and they are seventh on the PSL standings having played 12 matches won four drawn five and lost three.They have not won a game since beating Ajax Cape Town 2-0 in October.That victory was followed by goalless draws against Orlando Pirates and Baroka FC a 1-2 defeat to Mamelodi Sundowns 1-1 draws with SuperSport United and Cape Town City and a 1-3 loss to Chippa United in their last game.Chiefs remaining matches before the annual Christmas break are against Bloemfontein Celtic at Soccer City on Wednesday Polokwane City at home on Sunday and away to Golden Arrows on December 21.Home matches in particular have been hard on Komphela and he has endured a torrid time from irate Chiefs fans.He admitted that he is approaching Wednesday s encounter against the 12th placed Celtic with some degree of trepidation as he knows exactly what will happen should Chiefs misfire once again. Sometimes it works against you when you are playing at home and your people are not happy and they are edgy. It becomes a tense match. You must watch on Wednesday and I hope it does not happen. I didn't say this to the players but in the beginning of the match when you expect and you are looking for the support (from the stands) it gets tense (when it doesn't come). These are human beings. Even you as a coach you keep saying okay let s focus on the game let s play don t worry let s relax . But it s the human mind and the human body. Tension is there so I hope it does not affect them in that way. But it is always nice to play at home."If you look at anywhere else in world home matches... at the weekend all the home teams won in the English premier league and that is a big sign. You want to take advantage of that. You do not want your home matches to become a thorn and then you pray eish it s better to play away from home."How could you ever say I would rather have dinner away from home? The best meal is at home. Komphela said while the last few weeks have been difficult quitting was the furthest thing from his mind and he would soldier on. The only result at Chiefs is a win let us be realistic."A draw is not good and a loss is like a death. TMG Digital