City who narrowly avoided relegation last season finishing 13th have had quite some transformation this season under Eymael.Having won seven games the whole of last season this season Rise and Shine have won five already after 14 matches to sit in fifth place as the league heads for its six-week break for Christmas and the Africa Cup of Nations.Eymael has seen in City s past two games though that their attacking game plan with a speedy frontline that commits numbers forward rattling some of the big-name teams of the PSL can come unstuck through a lack of experience especially in defence.City lost 3-2 against Kaizer Chiefs through Willard Katsande's injury-time winner for Amakhosi then lost 2-1 in midweek against SuperSport United at Lucas Moripe Stadium in midweek where poor decision-making up front cost Eymael's team while they were dominating the first hour. I m very happy about the improvement of my players. I think everybody saw the work that we did. City last season only won 10 points in the first round the Belgian said of Polokwane s first half of the season. We deserved one point at Chiefs but instead there was a lucky goal and a mistake. Against SuperSport we certainly deserved a point. And we have the same players as last season. Only Rodney Ramagalela and Thabiso Semenya have come in. So yeah I m very happy about the improvement of the boys. But we lost some points on the road that we had to win. And I think with these points we could have been top. But OK Polokwane at No.1 in the PSL it would be a very big problem for everybody. I m very happy to be in the top eight. But we need more support. Eymael said he and Polokwane chairman Johnny Mogaladi do have plans to beef up City s squad. With a little bit more support with a bit more experience [in the squad] we should have had at least three more points the coach said. We will certainly improve the team although I cannot give you names. Certainly some players will leave the team like everywhere in the PSL. And we will certainly try to reinforce the team in certain positions. Because we need it. We also have a lack of height I have the shortest team in the PSL and it was very difficult to compete against a team like SuperSport. I have some players who are very thin and short. OK they are very speedy but you also need the body. So I think it s very important and I think with the chairman we will correct that. It s him who ultimately decides about the transfers. City resume their campaign against Maritzburg United at Old Peter Mokaba Stadium on February 8.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport