Selling for a recommended retail price of R19,999, it has everything you d expect at that price point. It s not a powerhouse but it is good enough to use as a first gaming laptop. The goodWe like the look of it. The minimalistic design feels solid and professional. You could haul out at a business meeting and not have it look like a toy.The I7 processor is better than the I5, in particular if you re into gaming or multitasking. Whether you re playing a game or working on multiple spreadsheets, the I7 makes this computer work just that little bit better.The cooling works well there are online reports of it getting noisy occasionally, but we didn t experience that.Considering the laptop s price point, the sound quality is a standout feature, with a subwoofer adding depth to the auditory experience.Look at the bottom of the laptop and you ll find another standout feature, a maintenance hatch secured by one screw that grants easy access to the machine s inner workings. This makes the Dell unusually maintenance friendly.The 4GB Nvidia 960M graphics card is not really VR ready (to achieve that you need a 980M) but it is powerful enough for most gaming purposes. You ll want to stick to medium settings to avoid dipping below 30 frames per second, but with that in mind it works reasonably well.The battery lasts for about two-and-a-half hours while gaming, which isn't bad at all. Gaming tends to use more power than other applications and you don t expect a battery to last ages, yet this one did a good job.The three-pin plug on the charger is a welcome touch. Two-pin adapters are a hassle and, if you re spending tens of thousands of rand on something, you shouldn t need an adapter to plug it in.The laptop has three USB ports, which is enough. (We would have preferred one more, but USB ports are a bit like crisps we can always go for just one more. The convenience of more ports cannot be overstated.)The touchpad works well enough. Clicking is responsive and it recognised our movements. We d still prefer a mouse because of the full mobility it offers during gaming, but otherwise the pad is acceptable.The badThere is no optical drive. The disk era is pretty much over, but for those who still use them, it is worth noting.If you re going to buy this laptop, you ll want to double up on the RAM 8GB is fine but 16GB is better.At 2.7kg it s not especially light but it is manageable. It is portable enough but you re likely to keep it deskbound most of the time.It could have been because we were testing a review model, but the HDMI port seemed a little loose when we moved the cable slightly, it distorted the image. (We were using a Dell screen so it wouldn t have been a compatibility issue.)The keyboard feels a bit rubbery not the best feeling while typing, but it works well enough that you ll get used to it.OverallNormally, if you ve got the money, we d recommend a gaming laptop. While they are more expensive, they have more than enough muscle for use at work, and the cooling keeps working for years.The big wear-and-tear factor with computers in general is cooling: as they get hot, their components degrade and performance is lost. Aside from being more powerful, gaming laptops tend to have better cooling systems to cope with the higher power load that high-end gaming demands. Even if you aren t using them for games, they can therefore be more reliable in the long term.With this laptop, the bonus of the maintenance hatch means it s easy to look after it for an extended period.The graphics card qualifies this as a gaming laptop, as a 960M is just good enough to be worth considering for a gaming rig. It will play most if not all modern games, though not on their highest detail settings.Comparatively, if you look at the ASUS ROG G552 I7, you can get something very similar with double the RAM, but it only has a 2GB card and no subwoofer.The HP ENVY 15 I7 6500U, meanwhile, has only a 950M graphics card, though it does come with a solid-state hard-drive.Aside from the slightly spongy keyboard, this laptop is exactly what we d expect for R19,999. There are other laptops at similar prices, but to get one thing better, you ll end up with at least one thing worse.It s not a bargain, but it is a solid buy.