The Department of Transport (DoT) announced earlier on Tuesday that 845 people have died on the country s roads between 1 December and 19 December a 17% increase on the same period last year. A breakdown of the figures is showing a trend: lack of inter-personal respect among motorists. Once again driver attitude is the cause of many of the fatal crashes; and it is a problem that appears to be getting worse rather than better the AA said in a statement. According to Transport Minister Dipuo Peters who condemned irresponsible and reckless drivers when the department released the mid-month festive season assessment human factors contributed 82% to fatal crashes while road and environmental factors (10%) and vehicle factors (8%) contributed the rest. The AA said it was encouraging that the Minister said she would engage with the provinces to consider extending overtime payment for law enforcement officers as well as intensifying law enforcement visibility. These are steps in the right direction and the Minister should be supported by every South African in this endeavour. However while we are supportive of these and other steps the real proof of their success will be at the end of the festive period when the final numbers are announced. We are hopeful that these will make a difference but we are concerned that they will be too late the AA said. During her announcement the Minister also mentioned pedestrians who account for 35% of the total number of fatalities. The AA said pedestrians needed to make themselves more visible especially in poorly lit areas to ensure their safety. It also warned motorists to be vigilant of inebriated pedestrians who posed a risk to themselves and drivers who don t see them quickly enough to avoid them. Apart from the fatalities the AA noted that 2 509 people were arrested for drunk driving in Gauteng alone during the period "another shocking statistic given the clear messages regarding alcohol use and driving" prior to the start of the festive season.