While Celtic are one of the best defensive sides, this was a team Chiefs should have beaten, but they didn't. Chiefs remain in seventh position with 18 points from 13 games. They haven't won in eight games stretching back to October.The straits have never been direr for Steve Komphela's side. The fans massed near the tunnel and escorted him off the field with the expected chorus of boos.While the first half was action-packed, it lacked the crucial element of a goal, not that the sides came close to rattling the net. Chiefs were by far the better side and did not miss the suspended Willard Katsande.What they missed were goals even though Edmore Chirambaradare and Michelle Katsvairo lacked the necessary killer touch to punish the unusually flaky Celtic defence.There were times when Chiefs seemed to run at will and find space where there wasn't any but finishing remained a problem.They looked like a side that scored 13 goals in 12 matches leading into the game. Should Chiefs retain Komphela beyond the new year, this is a department that needs fixing and fast. Celtic attacked like a side that has scored only six league goals and not at any stage did they look like threatening Brilliant Khuzwayo.Deon Hotto had two decent set-piece chances but they came to nothing, even though Celtic had the pace to keep Chiefs on their toes, especially on the left-hand side where Daniel Cardoso was used as a makeshift left-back in Sibusiso Khumalo's suspension-enforced absence. Chiefs also lost one of their best attacking players when George Lebese had to be stretchered off in the 40 minute with a lower back strain. New recruit Joseph Molangoane acquitted himself well even though he was fortunate to escape a yellow card for simulation in the 63 minute.There wasn't much change in the second stanza, even though Erick Mathoho forced a superb save from Patrick Tignyemb in the 54 minute.There were parts of Chiefs game that was tactically sound, especially when they attacked from the flanks but their finishing left a lot to be desired.That explained why a number of fans left with 20 minutes left because this wasn't a game to get caught up in traffic for.An example of Chiefs' lack of potency in front of goal was Chirambaradare's inability to convert a simple set-piece manoeuvre in the 76 minute.Celtic suddenly found attacking form and Khuzwayo found himself having to keep out shots from Fiston Abdul Razzak (76) and Musa Nyatama (78). That fire was quickly extinguished as the game meandered to its inevitable conclusion. - TMG Digital