The Parisian club confirmed that the 24-year-old Goosen had informed them he was retiring from rugby to take up a commercial director post in South Africa.Details of Goosen s new career are vague.It was an open secret on the recent Bok tour to Britain and Italy in which Goosen featured at fullback against Wales and on the bench against England and Italy that he wanted out of his French deal.Club president Jacky Lorenzetti revealed the news on the club s website. Goosen whose contract was overwhelmingly re-structured a year ago now claims to be free in an incredible way an incredulous Lorenzetti said. He has announced today that he has taken the incredible decision to end his playing career to return to South Africa for a strong role as a commercial director. We regret that such a talented player has gone astray and decided to abandon professional rugby as it seems obvious that the role of commercial director is incompatible with high level sport. But Lorenzetti warned that Goosen and his agent might face legal action from the club. We wish to add that Racing 92 has always strongly supported Johan Goosen both morally and financially Lorenzetti said. And while it has unfortunately proved in recent times that there is a certain lack of vis- -vis between the player and his coaches and more generally of all members of the club and its fans we hope it quickly becomes aware that compliance with a contract like that of a given word is the basis of all human and professional relationships. Naturally Racing 92 reserve the right to give such conduct all appropriate legal actions both towards Johan Goosen as those who advise him. Goosen who played the bulk of his rugby at centre for Racing last season when they won the French Top 14 and the European Champions Cup recently signed an extension on his contract keeping him in Paris until 2020.It s unclear what the fallout between Goosen and the club is about at this stage but in a frank interview with this writer in November 2014 Goosen seemed happy in France. I m really enjoying life in France and when I made that decision [to leave SA] I thought my Bok career was over and I would have to live with it."I wrestled with the decision a lot and so I was very surprised when I was called up for this tour. Injuries played a big part in making the decision to leave South Africa. I didn t do it because I thought I couldn t be injured playing rugby in France but because I needed to think about my financial future and it s a more lucrative over there. Goosen has played 14 Tests for the Springboks. - TMG Digital