This was revealed in a recent survey conducted by the Automobile Association released on Tuesday.The survey also found that only 8% percent of motorists feel safe while travelling on South African roads over this period. According to the results of the poll conducted in early December 62% of motorists regard drunk driving as the biggest problem on the country s roads.Apart from speeding and a lack of law enforcers the survey found that motorists believe unlicensed drivers also pose a major problem. The results are indicative of what we have been saying for a long time: that the attitude of South African drivers is simply not good enough. Drunk driving speeding or driving without proper licences are behaviours that can be changed but aren t. Unless more is done to prevent these types of conduct they will continue unabated the association said. Results also showed that 60% of motorists said their safety depended on the attitude of other road users.About 8% of motorists said they felt safe travelling on the country s roads over the festive period while 27 % said they did not feel safe as the roads they used needed upgrading or better maintenance. Another worrying element we found was that motorists say that they drive an average of three hours before stopping to take a break. We would encourage all drivers to change this by stopping every two hours or 200 kilometres to refresh and relax. Being tired behind the wheel is extremely dangerous and stopping regularly ensures that you maintain focus for the whole journey said the AA. The association said being alert on the road was especially important as 66% of respondents who said they were going away indicated they would be travelling between 501 kilometres and 1 500 kilometres over the festive period.It said on long journeys maintaining focus on the road can become difficult and that stopping to stretch legs or for fresh air is essential. Our country has a high road fatality rate over festive periods. To begin dealing effectively with this motorists must obey the rules of the road drive responsibly and respect other road users. We urge all motorists to apply these principles for a safer happier festive period on our roads in 2016 the association said.