On Thursday, the Land Claims Court ordered the Rural Development and Land Reform Department to appoint a "special master of labour tenants" to oversee claims by families who laboured on farms and, often in lieu of payment, were given permission to live on a portion of the farm and cultivate it.The ruling was in a case involving a community claiming land at the country's most expensive school, Hilton College, in KwaZulu-Natal, but it has far-reaching implications for claims across South Africa.The ruling, which the Rural Development and Land Reform Department said it would appeal against, according to its spokesman, Linda Page, has agricultural economists concerned about the loss of agricultural productivity.The case was instigated three years ago by the Association for Rural Advancement and the Legal Resource Centre on behalf of the KwaNozekhela community. The community has waited since the early 2000s to have its claim dealt with.The association said the judgment would speed up claims by labour tenants.Laurel Oettle, a director of the association, said: "The patience and determination of thousands of labour tenants and their families has been rewarded. The rights of labour tenants have been upheld."Thabiso Mbhense, the Legal Resource Centre attorney who dealt with the case, said: "This is a historic moment for the land-rights movement. We foresee its implementation having a dramatic impact on thousands of labour tenants waiting for their land."One of the Hilton claimants, David Mncwabe, said he hoped for a speedy resolution.The KwaNozekhela claim includes farmland, timber plantations and a game reserve, but excludes the Hilton school buildings and sports fields.Because its members were allowed to live and farm in lieu of payment, the community believes it is entitled to the land.Mncwabe said: "I was born here and have lived here my whole life. We don't know any other area; everything we have is here."The community is not interested in payouts. Instead, it wants to use the land to farm.Mncwabe said the community was frustrated by the nearly 20 years of delay."If we get the land we will have many cattle, goats and vegetables. We will go back to everything we once had."The newly appointed special master will handle all land tenant claims, not just the Hilton case.Nqobizizwe Mabaso, of the Landless People's Movement, whose family is making a similar claim in the Ladysmith area in KwaZulu-Natal, said the Hilton case was precedent-setting."It is a critical case that we can use to show the government that labour-tenant issues need to be addressed." University of the Free State agricultural economist Johan Willemse welcomed the judgment but warned about lower food production, especially if the new land owners could not secure financing for farming."In some instances when land claims were executed, 90% of the farms stop producing and became neglected. The government must provide land claimants with title deeds, because without them they cannot secure financing."If you look at emerging farmers' organisations, the big thing they all criticise is that you can't use the land for finance."You need a business plan and money. [But] to have money you need a title deed to raise funds."If you are just part of the community the land belongs to the government and there is no long-term investment."We need to do this properly. People [must] have ownership so that we keep production going," said Willemse.Theo de Jager, president of the Southern African Confederation of Agricultural Unions, said the judgment would bring much-needed certainty to the agricultural sector."We understand the frustrations of the labour tenants. The situation had become unsustainable. There has been very little certainty. Without certainty there cannot be investments because farmers need stability to be productive."Unlike land claims, the labour tenants' claims were not widespread, said De Jager.