Zahara took to social media on Monday to call out the publication for associating her name with drugs, after their cover line read: "Zahara: marriage, drugs and selling records".Lerato, who had her own run-in with the publication earlier this year, took to Twitter on Tuesday to express her outrage at the cover, and called on female celebrities to boycott the magazine.The TV personality herself called out the magazine in May, after the magazine released unedited pictures of her, which sparked widespread anger.If only women in the industry could stand up together &amp; boycott True Love, &amp; stoping posing for their covers till they come right! leratokganyago (@leratokganyago) December 20, 2016But Ke... If only most had the balls to stand up against them....I guess It's each to her own, until you become the next victim!!! leratokganyago (@leratokganyago) December 20, 2016If only women in the industry could stand up together &amp; boycott True Love, &amp; stoping posing for their covers till they come right!But Ke... If only most had the balls to stand up against them....I guess It's each to her own, until you become the next victim!!!Lerato said that there was a number of publications that female celebrities could feature on and that True Love would continue to "use" celebrities if they did not stand up for themselves."They (True Love magazine) know there are female celebrities who have the mentality of: 'if it doesn't happen to me, I don't care'. So they use them!," Lerato added.They know, there will ALWAYS be someone who will jump on to be on that cover, so they will never stop!!! leratokganyago (@leratokganyago) December 20, 2016They have good writers, who write really well! But the Editor will always mess it up with a malicious headline, or a "chucky's wife" cover! leratokganyago (@leratokganyago) December 20, 2016True Love hogged headlines in May after Lerato slammed the magazine for the excessive use of Photoshop to edit her pictures. The publication responded by releasing unedited pictures of the star, which many saw as an attempt to body-shame Lerato.They know, there will ALWAYS be someone who will jump on to be on that cover, so they will never stop!!!They have good writers, who write really well! But the Editor will always mess it up with a malicious headline, or a "chucky's wife" cover!