The irate fans have openly displayed their irritation each time Chiefs have drawn matches and a defeat on Sunday would be something akin to a roasting over an open camp fire for Komphela.The problem is the visitors will arrive at Soccer City with a confident spring in their step and will certainly fancy their chances against a struggling Chiefs given their most result.City beat Chippa United in a hard-fought 1-0 win on Wednesday night the three points secured with a fantastic free-kick from skipper Jabu Maluleke.Belgian coach Luc Eymael s charges have gone about their business almost unnoticed and the fourth-placed Polokwane side certainly has enough guns to blow a misfiring Chiefs off the park on Sunday.Komphela conceded that Eymael has transformed City into a dangerous side and the influential Maluleke who has scored three goals this season will make things difficult for the hosts. They are well structured they are well organised and they play with a lot of discipline Komphela said. Maluleka is a big factor for them and they can play and will also give you problems in the set pieces. I will just have to go look at what transpired against Chippa get information and see what we have to add that we need to be careful about. But Eymael is quite a structured coach. His team is well disciplined and defensively you can see their organisation and offensively as well. They do come out with good structure. But as for us it is another three points that we have to fight for. We are playing at home (in the penultimate match of the year) before we finish away to Golden Arrows (at Moses Mabhida Stadium on Wednesday) in Durban. We have to get the three points and we are looking for something that will boost out confidence a present for our supporters before Christmas. City have only lost twice in the league this season and they have scored 16 goals in this campaign. The rise of Polokwane City is based on a good defensive structure and coming out on counterattacks as well like any other team Komphela said. The challenge for big teams is do you still want to play counterattacking football or are you going to have a mixture. It is a big challenge and it is not only a phenomenon in South Africa it is worldwide. In the only other league game on Sunday Baroka FC host Golden Arrows at Peter Mokaba Stadium. TMG Digital