For Exampe a basic hotel accommodation service which costs R1300 for bed-breakfast in South Africa could cost about R23000 per day in London The statement was in defence of Mgidlana after a City Press report that he stayed in a R14 050-per-night (R42 150 for three nights) room at the luxurious Conrad London St James Hotel and spent R44 320 on being chauffeur-driven in Budapest Hungary.Public reaction was scathing. On http://bookings.com there are 1 310 results 1 300 are below R23 000. Stop wasting our tax money!!! said N.Block @The_Blockster. Geordin Hill-Lewis shared a link to a luxury hotel that cost far less than parliament s budgeting: Here, for example, is The Radisson on Oxford Street in London (great location). 4 stars. R3300 a night. https://t.co/cOUgojVhOZ https://t.co/3Q3BtUVYsb Kops M @KopsM said "The travel agent was looting recklessly" while Katleho @Katle_SA was succinct: "Should be investigated".Koketso Moeti @Kmoeti shared his Google search results for London hotels advising parliamentary team "because I'm not sure what y'all are having to be paying such prices"."What is particularly alarming is this is claiming 'basic' when hotels with more are much cheaper " Moeti said. Babes weGinger @CJSteyl was on the same page sharing: "Ever heard of Trivago? Trip Advisor? Google? Don't come here to fool us shem . . . we know things".Sphe @Peabss was sceptical commenting: "This is tenderpreneur mathematics. Pay R3 000 then keep R20k for yourself".I am an African @Clint_ZA did a pound price check: "A King Superior room is available at the Conrad London St James for 299 why is STP paying 799?""The series of tweets by @ParliamentofRSA on claimed hotel costs in London demonstrate how the @MYANC takes all citizens for fools!"Frequent traveller Shahrina @sramphaul commented "Wow really? I've been to London many times never paid R23K a day. Did u type an extra zero in error?"Thando @ThandoKM checked up on the claim then shared "@ParliamentofRSA I'm on page 3 of http://Booking.com and I'm yet to find a R23k a night hotel in London".Parliament in a statement on Sunday 18 December 2016 claimed articles querying the cost of travel was part of "efforts aimed at denigrating the standing of the Secretary to Parliament (STP) hoping to derail the programme of remodelling and repositioning this institution to be able to lead good governance from the front as it has begun turning the corner with a clean audit finding by the Auditor General".It also hit out at criticism that the pricey travel came in a year when Parliament was not paying workers bonuses for the first time since 1994.The Parliament statement said assertions that costs of the official trips to international partners of Parliament were very high it said negated "the applicable Rand-Pound exchange rates that any South African gets subjected to when visiting London or other European countries"."For example a basic hotel accommodation service which costs R1 300 for bed-and-breakfast for every civil servant in South Africa could cost about R23 000 per day in London. The policies are clear with regarding to transport and accommodation services the STP as the Accounting Officer of Parliament is entitled to nationally and internationally."Regarding the provision of chauffeur services in the country this was done in line with the applicable policies and regulations."Parliament is determined to sustain its constructive and principled labour relation management approach which would withstand the negative tone carried in one of union leaders rather irresponsible utterances. Issues other leaders are commenting on are literally being revived from the grave-site as they were raised in the Joint Standing Committee of Parliament and the secretariat dealt with and closed them."Parliament strongly believes that attempts to derail efforts to improve the performance outputs and outcomes of Parliament through among others tightening financial management strengthening of performance based and results driven management of staff and improving overall efficiencies of this institution is bound to fail. A culture of entitlement to bonuses that had permeated every unit of the institution over many years had to be confronted and corrected through decisive leadership and management."Collectively we need to ensure that Parliament is able to deliver better services to Members of Parliament and the people of South Africa while progressively striving for excellence. We will always reiterate that an institution that achieves 46% of its performance targets has no basis to grant bonuses willy nilly. Of course this decisive and correct stance taken by the management of Parliament is being explained and managed in a series of engagements with the employees and their representative union."Democratic Alliance MP and chief whip John Steenhuisen was unimpressed: "When @ParliamentofRSA twitter account starts to justify this gross extravagance on luxury items for one man.. so much for "we the people!"