At the weekend the municipality sparked outrage after it blocked access roads to the Saldanha Bay beachfront and gave access cards to residents in the area. But mayor Marius Koen says the issue revolved around parking and complaints from residents and had been blown out of proportion. Koen was quoted in the Cape Times as saying the move was to maintain law and order as visitors sometimes arrived "by the taxi-load" resulting in noise vandalism and drunkenness. The remarks infuriated ANC Western Coast Regional spokesman Sammy Claassen who said the statement was racist and called for the mayor to face the consequences. Koen elaborated in an interview with TMG Digital on Monday that residents had complained of bad behaviour and lawlessness in the road outside their homes. They had been issued with access cards for the street he said but the beach was open as usual for everyone to use. "The ANC intend to lay a complaint with the Human Rights Commission against mayor Marius Koen for his remarks against the people of Saldanha Bay. We will left no stone unturned to call him to account and apologize for his utterances " said Claassen. Claassen said the ANC wants Koen's immediate removal from office. According to Claassen Koen is not fit to hold his position or able to defend and respect basic human rights. He said the mayor was clearly referring to poor disadvantaged coloured and African people. "This remark implies that all black (or) coloured people in taxis at the beachfront are vandals noisy and drunkards. This shows the Saldanha bay mayor's racist attitude and outlook towards coloured and African people at beaches " he added. Koen denied making any racist remarks on the matter saying his statement was taken out of context. "Last year was exactly the same thing that happened but no brouhaha was made about it... at all. I don't understand why is it done now maybe because I am a white mayor and last time it wasn't a white mayor. Is that the case?" He said the municipality was responding to calls by residents in the area who complained about bad behaviour lawlessness noise and vandalism over the festive period. "I was informed by my law enforcement that it is mostly taxi people that come in. I didn't stipulate what race it was. I didn t stipulate who was riding... I never mentioned which race it was " he said. He said people could still go to the beach but they could not park there as per the restrictions. - TMG Digital/The Times