As the nation remembered the third anniversary of the death of Nelson Mandela on December 5, it lost perhaps one of its most famous musical sons.The star had apparently been struggling with his health in the hours prior to his death and was rushed to a Johannesburg hospital. It was here that he later died.His death sent the nation into mourning. Social media was flooded with messages of tribute and condolences, and radio honoured the star by playing his music on heavy rotation.Sfiso's sons took to Instagram the day after his death to pay tribute to their father."To my father, thank you for everything you have done for the whole family I know you didn't mean to leave us. I hope that you (rest in peace) and I promise I will follow in your footsteps. There will never be another loving father like you. Love you guys with all my life," Sfiso's son Ngcweti wrote.While Sfiso's youngest son, Mawenza, wrote: "My hero daddy. We will always protect mommy for you."Memorial services in both Johannesburg and Durban were later held for the star, where a letter from Sfiso's widow, Ayanda, to her husband was read."Mission accomplished dearest husband. Who am I to question God after I have seen him through you my love. You declared me the most beautiful woman you ever laid your eyes on. You treated me like a queen. I didn t know what you meant when you said: 'love, I need you to be strong because I m about to go away on a world tour now that I am not afraid of flying'. I am sure that your death was a secret plan between you and God. A perfectly designed plan. God will refer to you as his humble son," she wrote.Watch the letter read in full. A week of mourning ended with an emotional funeral held at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban.Mourners braved the rain to pay tribute to their hero and heard tributes from friends and family.Actor Menzi Ngubane burst into tears as he told mourners how he gave Sfiso his suit for his first album cover shoot. I m sorry Ayanda. Hamba kahle Ncwane hamba kahle he said to Sfiso's widow.There was also a heart-wrenching musical tribute by Rebecca Malope. Starting at Ayanda Ncwane s side, Rebecca made her way to Sfiso s casket where she sung a chilling rendition of Let Me Come to You. The star was later buried at the Lala Kahle Memorial Park in Botha's Hill, west of Durban, next to a tombstone reading: Great giant, you were a gift to the world and to us as a family".