However one of the analysts who spoke to TMG Digital argues it was safe for him to do so as it does not antagonise number one - current president Jacob Zuma.Ramaphosa who is deputy president of the country and the ANC surprised many when he told Power FM on Thursday that he would take up the position as president of the ruling party if elected."It would be very humbling to get into a key position like that to lead. I am available to stand " he told the radio station.Political analyst Ebrahim Fakir commended Ramaphosa for his bravery. What he has done is a brave thing but he is not the first. In the lead-up to Polokwane Tokyo [Sexwale] and [Thabo] Mbeki did raise their hands. It was good because it is breaking the mould of that thing where people come to you and there is an automatic succession I am hoping that what Cyril Ramaphosa's move will do is to entrench that culture of legitimising open desire for political office . [and] break the culture of silence. Break the culture of behind-the-scenes manoeuvring and make open declarations said Fakir.The ANC has not been in support of people talking about the succession debate but some of the members of the tripartite alliance have not stuck to that rule.Fakir said that Ramaphosa s decision should enable the discussion about the country s politics to move beyond personalities. I hope that Cyril s open declaration will now set in motion a real debate not based on personalities but on the politics and ideas of what they [leaders] want to offer. Hopefully now we can have an open discussion as to what his promise is based on. What is the vision the policy purpose and how this will translate into government Fakir said.He described Ramaphosa as a candidate who could bring back investor confidence.But political analyst Dumisani Hlophe said the move was due to the fact that the other candidate Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma had already sent signals of her availability and willingness. I also think that the camp that supports him is the same camp that supported [Kgalema] Motlanthe. Motlanthe dilly dallied and it was too late. I guess his camp said that they can t go through that again It is meant to undo the Motlanthe route which was too costly to that camp said Hlophe.He added: The third element is that he is not contesting number one (Zuma). And therefore he can raise his hand without antagonising number one. But Hlophe warned the nation that change could not come from an individual. In real terms whether it is Cyril or Dlamini-Zuma that becomes president things will always be determined by the powerful faction within the ANC.