For our continent the year saw life expectancies rise by 9.4 years with Malawi achieving a 67% reduction in children acquiring HIV and Liberia eradicating Ebola within its borders. Worldwide it was the year that saw the amount of money needed to beat world poverty dip below the amount of money being spent on foreign aid carbon emissions didn t increase at all and with the end of conflict in Colombia less than a sixth of the world is in a war zone. Today we look back at some of the good news for South Africa in 2016.SA says no to anti-gay hate pastor Pastor Steven Anderson known for celebrating the murder of gay people in the US was denied entry to South Africa.Botswana meanwhile let him in and then promptly deported him. "This is to confirm the Pastor Steven Anderson a citizen of the United States of America has been declared a Prohibited Immigrant and as such is being deported from Botswana " their government said in a brief statement.HIV AIDS vaccine trial launched 5,400 South African men and women have signed up for a trial of what may be the world s first HIV AIDS vaccine. "HIV has taken a devastating toll in South Africa but we now begin a scientific exploration that holds great promise for our country " said Glenda Gray head of the vaccine trial in South Africa.Taxis protect fallen biker chase hit-and-run driver Elrich Engelbrecht the son of DA MP Bronwynn Engelbrecht was knocked off his bike in a hit-and-run on incident his way to the Tuks Mamelodi campus. The taxi drivers who witnessed the event quickly formed their vehicles into a cordon to protect the downed biker one of them offloaded a paramedic to help him and another tried to corner the red Citi Golf that had hit him. "My deepest gratitude to all the amazing people: Francois the student the amazing taxi drivers the Tshwane paramedics and the Tshwane Metro that crossed my son s path and demonstrated that we are a GREAT nation of CARING PEOPLE!" Bronwynn Engelbrecht said on Facebook.Bigotry ends in a big tip South Africa has seen a lot of racism over this past year and it is easy to give in to hate. When Ntokozo Qwabe boasted about his friend Wandile Dlamini telling a white waitress "WE WILL GIVE TIP WHEN YOU RETURN THE LAND".Sihle Ngobese disagreed. He tracked down the waitress and gave her a R50 tip starting a pair of internet campaigns that ended up giving her over R130 000.President Zuma #paidbackthemoney After years of fighting over the upgrades to his Nkandla residence 2016 was the year that President Jacob Zuma finally agreed to pay back at least some of the money. Okay the bank that loaned Zuma the money to #paybackthemoney ended up facing a cash crunch at its Thohoyandou branch but it still counts. - TMG Digital