Kingston Nkhatha looked as though he had given SuperSport the win when he scored eight minutes from time, but the visitors could not hold on for the win, much to the frustration of coach Stuart Baxter. City were much improved on their 4-0 midweek mauling at the hands of Platinum Stars and with a bit more luck may have come out on top. They remain on top of the table with 25 points from 14 games, three ahead of SuperSport in second, who have 22 points from 13 games. SuperSport started the brighter and had an early chance when Kingston Nkhatha found some space on the left, but his shot was blocked for a corner. It was a nervous start by the hosts but they soon slipped into their usual passing game and began to unlock the SuperSport defence with some intricate moves. One of these set Judas Mosealedi free in the box but his dink towards goal was half-stopped by Matsatsantsa keeper Reyaad Pieterse, with Michael Boxall then clearing the loose ball. Thato Mokeke then delivered a fine cross from the left that was almost turned home by Moseamedi, but Pieterse managed to save with his feet. Still City kept pressing and Lebogang Manyama s excellent pass to the feet of Sibusiso Masina saw him charge towards goal. With Moseamedi up in support, Masina chose a shot that went just wide. It was more of the same in the second period as Moseamedi broke free on the left and sent a superb low cross for Manyama at the back post, but the City skipper could only hit the side-netting. But going into the final 20 minutes the flow of the game changed and SuperSport began to see more of the ball again. Reneilwe Letsholonyane became more influential and had an excellent headed chance to give his side the lead, but ended ended up putting it well over the bar. City also started to take risks but pushing more bodies forward and it was from one of these forays that SuperSport scored. Matsatsantsa broke with a four-on-four situation and Letsholonyane s excellent ball to the back post was turned home by the grateful Nkhatha. City debutant Luyolo Nomandela, who came off the bench, thought he should have had a penalty late on when he was brought down in the box, but City did get their equaliser through top-scorer and talisman Manyama, who netted his ninth goal of the season. - TMG Digital 