Nasty C burst onto the scene last year with his hit single Juice Back. But if anyone thought he was a one-hit wonder they were sadly mistaken. The rapper ended the year with a Best Freshman award at the SA Hip Hop Awards and a spot on the MTV Hottest MC list. But he propelled himself on to another level in 2016 with the release of his debut album Bad Hair. The albumIt seemed like fans waited most of the year with baited breath for the rapper to finally release his debut album and he probably didn t help his cause when he told Slikour that his album would be better than even Kanye West s. Kanye West's album is dope but I think he is a little too creative. I feel like my album is sounding better. If you talking about an album that is for the people and not just me about telling my story then I think it sounds better the rapper told Slikour in April.The record dealBut just as fans got over that little gem, reports claimed that the rapper had met with Jay Z's Roc Nation to discuss a potential deal.Nasty C stressed his desire to have a unique deal with the label, and it was this desire that later saw him decide to turn his back on a potential deal, in favour of one with Mabala Noise.The chart-topperNasty C was unveiled, alongside much of the music industry, at a massive launch for the label in July - a move that saw his album quickly fast tracked and a September release date announced.Despite a slight delay on release day, the album shot straight to number one on all the platforms it was released on.The people had spoken, and they loved Nasty C.The international collabsHis album spent many weeks on top of the charts and was praised by celebs and fans alike. So, it was only a matter of time before Nasty C was making similar waves internationally. He jumped into studio for a feature on Nigerian mega star Davido s latest single, Coolest Kid In Africa and release a Bad Hair Extensions album which featured a collaboration with US rapper French Montana.But perhaps one of his biggest moments was when US rap sensation Future pretty much opened for Nasty C at the MTV MAMAs in Johannesburg. Future couldn t help but gush over Nasty C s talent.I liked a @YouTube video from @iammfumu https://t.co/UrWF9Nyytv Future &amp; Nasty C Performance At MTV MAMA 2016 The lesson learntReflecting on the lessons the year had taught him, Nasty C told TshisaLIVE that he had learnt the value of staying in his lane and working alone. I work alone. I guess I learnt that. Because every time I try to work with other people in their environment, it doesn t seem to go the way I want it to. I understand that sometimes artists have great ideas, genius ideas, but sometimes they clash. I learnt to work alone, he said.