 We are shocked by the violent nature of the video involving learners said Jessica Shelver spokesperson for Western Cape MEC of Education Debbie Schafer.A district director visited the school on Monday.In the video which went viral and prompted outrage a schoolgirl can be seen violently shaking the head of a classmate smashing a knee into her face and punching the victim in the head in full view of pupils in a classroom.A disciplinary hearing has been scheduled for December 8. The parents of the perpetrator have informed us that they have voluntarily removed their daughter from the school. The school will however still conduct the disciplinary hearing she told TMG Digital by email on Monday. The victim is receiving counselling and support. The MEC has requested that the school run anti-bullying interventions at the school at the start of the 2017 academic year. Respect for human dignity is one of the values enshrined in our constitution and bullying is a denial of this said Shelver.Many cases of bullying go unreported. We therefore urge parents and learners to report any form of bullying immediately to their class teacher school principal or to the Safe Schools hotline so that we can respond accordingly she said.The provincial Safe Schools hotline is available to schools teachers parents and learners to report all school crime and abuse The centre can be reached at a toll-free number - 0800 45 46 47.Schools deal with bullying in terms of their codes of conduct while professional staff are available in various districts to advise schools on bullying. The WCED has a policy called Abuse no More that provides clear guidelines on how to deal with various forms of abuse including bullying said Shelver. The WCED's point of departure is that bullying reflects deeper personal problems that we have to address appropriately. These include an inability to form positive relationships. If we don't address these problems properly then we can expect other problems to surface including various forms of anti-social behaviour she said.Parents can help to identify behavioural changes in their children which could be as a result of being bullied. If your child seems withdrawn or angry investigate the reason for these changes and speak to the class teacher immediately if the matter is school related. Parents can contact the nearest District Office if they are not happy with the response of the school she said.