She also threw former SABC board members under the bus saying she was not aware of the board s refusal to hand over key documents to the inquiry.Muthambi admitted that the skills audit report - which the board claimed would expose commercial interest - was in fact not commercial.Muthambi was appearing before parliament s ad hoc committee inquiry into the SABC. Her appearance came after days of testimony from former board members and journalists who accused her of interfering in board and editorial matters. Let me start to give historical context of the issues. I was fortunate member of portfolio committee since 2010 prior to my appointment. SABC s governance and financial health were in tatters. In fact the experienced corporate governance crisis since the late 2006 when there was alleged interference in appointment of board and executive. During this crisis the SABC lost R910 million and was forced to seek external funding elsewhere said Muthambi.Muthambi claimed ignorance on former COO Hlaudi Motsoenefng s reported R11 million bonus. On matter of bonus I read it in papers. After reading I wrote to the company secretary. She promised to give me the minutes of approving of board said Muthambi.She claimed she was not aware of the behavioural tendencies of Motsoeneng despite letters from former board member Hope Zinde. I don t recall anyone complaining about conduct of Mr Motsoeneng. Hope (Zinde) what she raised she was not seeing eye to eye with former board chairperson (Ellen Tshabalala). I didn t receive any complaint with Mr Motsoeneng formally so said Muthambi.Muthambi defended the amendment of the SABC memorandum of understanding that gave her powers to fire and hire.Muthambi dismissed evidence by former board members saying she was disappointed" in particular with former board member Ronnie Lubisi who didn t know what the legislated board quorum was.She said former board members Krish Naidoo and Vusumzi Mavuso once confessed to her at a SABC bilateral meeting on April 15 2016 that they ve never looked at the broadcasting act. Now I ve seen their statements they ve now become experts of the law. The question I asked them related on separation of board committees on public service including requirement to have separate annual reports said Muthambi.She said she hoped parliament would carry out its inquiry quickly to allow for an interim board to be appointed. At the end of day the law provides interim board to be appointed. I must say this for benefit of SABC said Muthambi.ANC MP Patrick Chauke said the reason the committee is in place is because there are problems at SABC. What is now required is going to be leadership out of this process said Chauke.He said the organisation has had three boards in 10 years and 12 CEOs since 2008. The accounting authority of organisation has collapsed said Chauke.Committee member Juli Killian said nothing has changed at the SABC since Muthambi was a member of the portfolio committee. If I look at the number of special meetings there is no governance. I m not even talking about time the board is not quorate. The interpretation from your legal team (on broadcasting act) differs significantly from what we ve presented as parliament. Responding to the ANC s Makhosi Khoza on whether she was distancing herself as the shareholder Muthambi said no.She said she was not exonerating herself but governance failure of SABC shouldn t be attributed to shareholder . It should be a collective responsibility said Muthambi.On the MultiChoice deal she said this was decided by the previous board and was surprised the matter was part of the current inquiry.She said Lubisi Mavuso and previous board members signed the deal. Some issues predate my assumption as minister said Muthambi.Muthambi said she found the personal attacks by the SABC 8 group of journalists very disheartening .-TMG Digital/Sunday Times