He was bruised cut and his shirt soaked with blood. Many thought he had been assaulted.The drama was staged on Wednesday by the Western Cape Department of Transport and Public Works as part of its campaign geared at drinking responsibly. The department recently aired a hard hitting television commercial which dealt with drunk pedestrians.The injured man was Buyani Skade a presenter at isiXhosa radio station Zibonele FM based in Khayelitsha.As confused pedestrians gathered closer to Skade his colleague Xolisa Siyaphi started sending out the message and revealed all. This is not a result of a real accident but it could be ... a number of pedestrians are killed while walking on the road or trying to cross while drunk he said.In a television commercial launched last week the character played by Skade starts with him getting ready to go out for the night.He meets his two friends and then orders beers at a drinking spot. As the night goes on and he gets more intoxicated his face turns demonic.After the night draws to a close the three friends are seen staggering down the pavement and being chased away by informal traders.One of the three is hit by a car. More than 600 pedestrians are killed on Western Cape roads every year. Alcohol is a constant danger on the province s roads and is claiming the lives of hundreds of our young men in the prime of their lives whether they are drinking and driving or walking on busy roads when they are incapacitated the department s Byron la Hoe said in a statement.He said road death statistics show that black African and coloured males aged 19-29 years were most at risk. Help us to create booze-free roads. The simple fact is that alcohol and roads don t mix. By taking the decision not to drink/walk and drive and sharing your decision with your family and friends you can influence the behaviour of others in a positive way he said.Onlooker Patrick Mdonga said he was initially shocked and convinced that the man he saw at the station was badly hurt. I got the message. You never know what is going to happen but sometimes it s difficult to just stay indoors and drink he said.Mdonga said he still thought drinking and driving were dangerous. In September the Western Cape government published a green paper which proposes among other things that pedestrians be subjected to breathalysers when walking near certain roads in the province.The paper also proposes that alcohol outlet owners operating in dark areas closer to certain roads be only granted liquor licences provided they can show they have contracted transportation to take their intoxicated patrons home.TMG Digital/Sunday Times