The latest annual report of the Joint Standing Committee on Intelligence released recently in Parliament provides a peek into the country s intelligence agencies which have been besieged by scandal and controversy in recent years. However the report which includes the annual report on the interception of private communications by Judge Yvonne Mokgoro - suggests tech-savvy citizens may have less to fear from being spied on by the State than many might have previously thought. The judge s report which covers the 2014/2015 year shows a significant year-on-year increase in interception applications from intelligence agencies which she is required by law to approve. Her report showed:- A nearly 68% increase in applications from 453 in 2013/2014 to 760 the following year; - Not all of those involved actual interceptions a third of those from the State Security Agency for example involved applications for information under RICA a law which requires cellphone and other users to provide address and proof-of-identity information; - The expansion of agencies applying for interception warrants - to include the South African National Defence Force (six applications in 2014/2015) and the Financial Intelligence Centre (up to 18 from three the previous year) and; - Only four entry warrants described by the judge as the most invasive of all interceptions were approved. All were applied for by the State Security Agency. But even as the judge s report outlined the scope and scale of intelligence agencies interception operations the joint standing committee s report raised significant questions about their efficacy. The committee reported on how it had visited the Office of Interception Centres and the National Communications facility in January this year. The Office of Interception Centres is responsible for interceptions under the RICA law and can only act once a warrant has been obtained from a designated judge like Mokgoro. The warrant needs to be sent to a telecommunications service provider which will then route the communications of their customer through the Office of Interception Centres. The Office did not have the capability to intercept on its own without the warrant or the rerouting by the service provider the committee s report said. Further the committee was told rapid technological change had resulted in them being left behind. Most of the equipment installed at the OIC was done at its establishment in 2002 the committee noted. At the National Communications facility a branch within the State Security Agency and which comprises the Office of Interceptions Centres the National Communications Centre and COMSEC a company owned by the National Intelligence Agency the committee learned how it too was being left behind in the technology race. The committee was told National Communications could not gather SIGINT signals intelligence for intelligence purposes had limited access to sources of signals and was short of professionals with the necessary skills. Judge Mokgoro s report went further in explaining the challenges the agencies faced. She noted that Internet-based services like Skype and others like BlackBerry Messenger were not able to be intercepted. And even if it were... the encryption that is applied to such services makes it nearly impossible for the law enforcement agencies to obtain any information on the content of a communication she wrote. She called for further investigation around this to find a solution. Mokgoro also called for the RICA law to be revised especially since it had emerged that people had RICA ed SIM cards in their name and then sold them on to others without changing the associated information about the identity of the new user. - TMG Digital