But Zuma's plans may be shortlived. The Independent Electoral Commission needs to check the parliamentary rules and the Municipal Systems Act to determine if a former president can run for mayor.Yesterday, at the funeral of ANC stalwart and Umkhonto weSizwe veteran Riot Mkhwanazi, Zuma revealed the job he wants next: "When I say I want to contest to be a councillor in my ward when I take my pension, people laugh. But it's not personal, it's organisational. I was telling the mayor of Vereeniging yesterday my ambition is to be mayor of Nkandla one day."During the local government election in August, Zuma queued with voters in Nkandla. It appeared to work - the ANC won the ward. But it did not prove successful overall as the ANC lost the Nkandla municipality to the IFP.KwaZulu-Natal chief electoral officer Mawethu Mosery said as far as he knew there was nothing that prohibited Zuma from standing as an elected councillor, but he did not have intimate knowledge of the rules surrounding former presidents and whether this would preclude Zuma from becoming mayor.In a Tweet IFP MP Mkhuleko Hlengwa said: "#Zuma's desire to be mayor of #Nkandla means he would first have to IFP first; but we dont want him! People of Nkandla dont want him too. Re: 3Aug [sic]."Zuma said he took his mayoral ambitions from Mkhwanazi, with whom he spent time on Robben Island, and his comrade's view on leadership. Zuma and Mkhwanazi were arrested as they tried to cross into Botswana in 1964. They both served 10 years behind bars.Zuma praised Mkhwanazi for accepting a position as a councillor in Zululand despite his struggle credentials, saying Mkhwanazi did not want to be "up there somewhere" among the top positions."We must aspire to be like him. It was not about him; it was about the ANC," said Zuma.Mkhwanazi died last Sunday aged 83. He was granted an official state funeral.His son, Ndlelenhle, described his father as being family-first and a protector. He recalled how, shortly after his dad returned from exile, a hit was ordered."Instead of fleeing the eSikhawini area, as advised by MK and ANC leaders, he chose to fight and keep his family safe."Dad always made us feel safe," he told nearly 4000 mourners. "He made it his point to do all he could to protect us. Each night, whether it was cold or wet or whatever situation, dad would grab his AK47 and stand guard outside until the early morning, protecting his family."Zuma said Mkhwanazi was "a brave freedom fighter. I knew him as a disciplined comrade. He would carry out instructions to the last and make those who were with him do the same. This was a man. whose bravery and resilience I can attest to."Mkhwanazi was buried at his family's home.