A bombardment of rebel areas continued nonstop overnight and a civilian trapped there described the situation as resembling doomsday."The battle of Aleppo has reached its end," said Rami Abdel Rahman, director of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights."It is just a matter of a small period of time, no more, no less. it's a total collapse." In the Mashhad neighbourhood residents fleeing the army were crowded in the streets with nowhere to go, witnesses said.Many were hungry and had not been able to take anything with them. East Aleppo has been under siege since mid-July, with food supplies dwindling.Displaced civilians were sitting on pavements. Women and children were sleeping on the streets, witnesses said.More than 2,200 rebels had already surrendered and about 130,000 civilians had fled fighting in recent weeks, said observers."People run from one shelling to another to escape death. It's doomsday in Aleppo. Yes, doomsday," said Abu Amer Iqab, a former government employee in the remaining rebel enclave.The rebels' sudden retreat represented a "big collapse in terrorist morale", a Syrian military source said.Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, backed by Russia, is now close to taking back full control of Aleppo, which was Syria's most populous city before the war and would be his greatest prize so far after nearly six years of conflict.Aleppo's fall would deal a stunning blow to rebels trying to remove Assad from power. But he would still be far from restoring control across Syria. Swathes of the country remain in rebel hands and on Sunday Islamic State retook Palmyra.Tens of thousands of civilians remain in rebel-held areas, hemmed in by ever-changing front lines, pounded by air strikes and shelling and without basic supplies.Rebel groups in Aleppo received a US-Russian proposal on Sunday for a withdrawal of fighters and civilians from the city's opposition areas, but Moscow said no agreement had been reached yet.A rebel official blamed Russia for the lack of progress in talks, saying it had no incentive to compromise while its ally Assad was gaining ground. "The Russians are being evasive."