Should videos of school bullying be shared on social media?TimesLIVE readers were asked for their opinions after the question was posed by social media lawyer and consultant Emma Sadleir on Wednesday.She raised the issue after watching a graphic video of a school pupil assaulting a classmate at Luckhoff High School in Stellenbosch. The pupil has appeared in court on a charge of assault with the intent to do grievous bodily harm. I actually feel sick after watching the Stellenbosch bullying video tweeted Sadleir. I'm completely conflicted about sharing bullying videos she said.In many cases school pupils who film an act of bullying share the footage with friends. Invariably the footage spreads from there across social media platforms into the public domain.On one hand sharing the footage creates awareness of the scourge and can lead to the perpetrators being punished.On the other hand the footage can be just as damaging to a victim of bullying who as it is shared is forced to relive the ordeal.There were strong views from readers both for and against sharing bullying videos. Here are some of the opinions shared with us on Facebook. Yes it's been hidden for too long. This way hopefully the victim gets justice said Heather Stip.Muzi Ngcobo said In essence we shouldn't but we must agree the information that has been shared of late is critical and important for prosecution purposes and shows us that there is a problem. Why are kids taking phones to school asked Judy Govender? Where do these bullies get the gall to physically attack their peers? Why doesn't anyone jump in to help the victim or scream blue murder to alert teachers? Tumelo Morakabi was firmly of the opinion that bullying videos should not be shared: You are Contributing to the Humiliation of the Victim. Which might lead To even more Viral Spread. This also increases the risk of suicide. Jeanne Beeslaar suggested that sharing the footage would allow people to tell their parents how terribly their child was behaving.Some suggested that the videos should only be shown to parents headmasters police or prosecutors but Batandwa Cokoto raised a valid point how do you stop people sharing things on the internet. One cannot even pee on the side of the road otherwise you are on internet. They must make it difficult to share videos but I don't know how. Nkosi Nat offered a bit of advice to parents of bullied children. Send your child to karate classes. After a few weeks he/she will be left alone. My employer did that with his bullied son. After the next bully attack they ran away for good. Educational psychologist Cara Blackie told TMG Digital earlier this week that bullying was "extremely common" but not often spoken about. "Our biggest problem is brushing it off. It's something that parents need to take a deeper listen to " said Blackie.Thanks for your contribution to the debate.