"Hlaudi is us; we are Hlaudi said ANCYL eThekwini chair Thembo Nthuli. "We want Hlaudi to get into government and lead part of the department so you will see transformation. If you believe what we're saying is wrong, engage us he said to about 80 faithful comrades under the white awning at the KwaMuhle Museum in the Durban city centre on Tuesday. Before that the region's secretary general Thinta Cibane said Motsoeneng should change his name to Transformation because of the work he did at the state broadcaster. He also praised the local content policy rule implemented for the country's radio stations. "He's heading everything. There's are many people on that board but we know Hlaudi. You are all we have. We said in Mangaung [at the ANC's 2012 national conference] we wanted 60% local content. Hlaudi gave us 90% said Cibane. This is the third time that Motsoeneng has been a guest of the Youth Leave in KwaZulu-Natal in the last three weeks. Each time he's been on the receiving end of praise including calls for him to become a member of the ANC's powerful decision-making national executive committee. And Motsoeneng has revelled in the audience his new-found allies. He started his address saying that he was not always like the calm Basotho people from the Free State the province he hails from. Instead they said his attitude was like [the] Zulus . "I do that because I'm unique I'm a special person he said to applause and enthusiastic laugher. One congregant even called out He's the chosen one. "South Africa is very interesting because we have been negotiating too long when it comes to implementation when it comes to transformation. The reason why everyone is talking about Hluadi is because Hlaudi has touched the real nerves of some people which I'm going to touch everyday. Whether I'm a COO whether I'm an ordinary person they will feel that touch and that nerve. "Why do people talk about Hlaudi? Have you asked why they talk about one person in an entire organisation? It's because this individual I'm very radical when it comes to transformation. And I don't apologise for that he said. Feeding off the audience who were eating out the palm of his hand Motsoeneng said people were making noise because of what he achieved at the SABC. "If you go to SABC you'll realise that 90% contribution and solution is Hlaudi he said. And he admitted that he wasn't one for consultation. "The SABC is too little for me. I want to have more impact for all South Africans. If you want someone who's not afraid it's me. For me I believe that if we implement whatever is going to benefit South Africa I don't go and consult many people because I know what we want he said. Continuing to weigh in on the transformation debate in the country Motsoeneng said that the problem was with black people in leadership positions. "Let me tell you something you know who's the problem in South Africa? It's not white people; it's black people. Because black people they put all these policies that are very difficult to empower black people. And you know you can't complain about transformation when you are in charge of transformation because immediately when you do that you are complaining about yourself. You should be removed if you complain about yourself. "I have observed that people put all these policies but if you check their intention they make sure they close doors for people who are emerging he said. Closing his message to the Youth League congregation about 30 minutes after he started he gave an indication that this might not be the last time he bathed in the support of the Youth League in KwaZulu-Natal. "Young people thank you. I'm happy. When I come to KwaZulu-Natal hey it's home here he said.- TMG Digital/The Times