Phuti Ragophala who has until recently been teaching Economics and Management Sciences and Technology at the Pula Madibogo Primary School in Polokwane was on Wednesday included in the top 50 shortlist for the Varkey Foundation Global Teacher Prize for 2017. Now in its third year the US$1 million award is the largest prize of its kind.Saying she was "feeling blessed" and "Proudly South African" Ragophala posted a message to her supporters on her Facebook wall as congratulatory messages poured in."I am still Phuti Ragophala. Those who want to know how I did it I am available to share assist inspire so that come next year you stand a better chance to be where I am now " she shared.In another message she said: ""I attended many educational conferences... I learnt a lot. It's time to share with other educators and inspire them to have voice in their work. I learnt that challenges in teaching and learning can be solved by teachers not directors in high echelons."@phutiragophala Congratulations on your selection for the Global Teacher Prize top 50. We are very proud of you! pic.twitter.com/InTGOHMmLX Living Maths (@LivingMaths) December 14, 2016 @phutiragophala Congratulations on your selection for the Global Teacher Prize top 50. We are very proud of you! pic.twitter.com/InTGOHMmLXCongratulatory messages also came in from Sechaba Nkoana who Facebooked her to say "Keep it up Phuti Ragophala. You have proven beyond reasonable doubt that teaching is a calling" and Abiodun Awonuga who commented "I've said time and again: The sky is not your limit Ma'm. Keep rising. You are a hope and an immense inspiration".The top 50 were shortlisted from over 20 000 nominations and applications from 179 countries. The winner will be announced at the Global Education and Skills Forum in Dubai on Sunday 19 March 2017.Ragophala was noticed for her work at her poor semi-rural area. The citation states: "Instead of turning children away if their parents are unable to pay for classes she has managed to empower parents by employing them in the running of the school giving children opportunities they would not have otherwise had. She has also worked hard to open up the world to her students integrating both biology and technology into her teaching and has been recognised for this by Microsoft her government and other organisations." The Global Teacher Prize is part of the Varkey Foundation s commitment to improve the status of teachers and to honour teachers who made an outstanding contribution to the profession.