 I am certain there will be protests Price tells Cape Town advocate Andrew Brown in a Daily Maverick interview on Tuesday. And if students choose to use unlawful means to force their demands on the university and are not willing to negotiate peacefully then we will need to bring in private security and police. I would like it to be otherwise but that is in the hands of the protest leaders. However Price says he is optimistic that a settlement negotiated with student groups on the eve of exams which passed off peacefully would lead to constructive discussions on points of conflict rather than disruptive protests. Responding to criticism that UCT negotiated too openly with groups that had resorted to violence Price says: The point is surely you negotiate with people you don t agree with to resolve conflict in ways other than through the use of force. As a leader in the university and in society I believe I am role-modelling how I think conflict should be dealt with: through discussion and through exhausting all other avenues before resorting to force. Price says the biggest challenge in talks that led to agreement was multiple factions within the student protest movement with overlapping but different priorities . Having found common ground on the national campaign for free education the establishment of an Institutional Reconciliation and Transformation Commission and financial exclusions at UCT there remained a single obstacle to an agreement namely the question of whether the expelled students could resume their studies .In the end UCT agreed that clemency or amnesty could be granted to those who signed a declaration acknowledging what they had done and undertaking not to do it again.He says: We had to weigh up the consequences of not reaching an agreement with the very high risks of not writing exams and not completing the academic year affecting tens of thousands of individuals against conceding that 12 individuals that should be allowed back on campus. The concession that allowed the students back is not a licence to impunity. It is an alternative approach to retributive justice namely restorative justice. Price says in many ways UCT has had one of its best years. We produced more research papers than ever before in our history. Our research contracts reflecting the confidence outside clients and sponsors have in the quality and capacity of our research teams crossed the R1-billion mark and exceeded 2014/5 s level by 30%. The impact of our research reached an all-time high if measured by the number of times UCT research was cited by other scientists. UCT medical research is the largest recipient of US National Institutes of Health funding anywhere in the world outside the USA. Last week we were awarded a prestigious Wellcome Centre of Excellence for research in infection diseases the only one of 11 awarded that is outside the UK. TMG Digital/The Times