In November Coetzee evaded the question of whether he would resign after the Boks lost 20-18 to Italy saying it was a decision for his bosses to make.The coach has a four-year contract and so far SA Rugby has refused to make any public statements about Coetzee s futureThe governing body has rather pointed to going through a process before any announcements are made.Tuesday marked the first formal part of that process to address the deflating season that saw the Boks lose eight of 12 Tests which was statistically the worst return in a calendar year in Springbok history.But since the Boks lost to Italy in Florence there have been back channel talks about what direction to take.To sack Coetzee would require SA Rugby jumping through several labour law and financial hurdles but they have to be weighed up against the cost of another calamitous season such as the one just passed.Insiders suggest that getting rid of Coetzee and the entire backroom staff could cost in the region of R22m in payouts which for an organisation that is set to declare a small loss in its next set of financial statements is not ideal.But in the long-term a repeat of 2016 could cost SA Rugby hundreds of millions in sponsorship revenue. A successful Bok team is the cure to most of rugby s ills.The hard but right decision would be to sack Coetzee who has not performed regardless of myriad structural problems in the local game.However it appears that SA Rugby is buying time to come up with some sort of compromise.One weekend newspaper suggested Brendan Venter would be roped in to hold Coetzee s hand as some sort of assistant/mentor. We know Springbok supporters and our partners are looking to us for instant answers and many of them may want to see heads roll Alexander said. But building winning teams is not an exact science and we want to make sure that the changes we make are the right solutions to our current problems. Coetzee and three senior players retiring captain Adriaan Strauss Pat Lambie and Tendai Mtawarira provided their feedback on Tuesday.The Springbok Steering Committee made up of Francois Davids and James Stoffberg (who were instrumental in Coetzee s appointment and also need to take responsibility) led the feedback session which also included Jurie Roux SA Rugby CEO.The committee is part of the process for identifying and recommending national team appointments. Alexander was also present.The committee received feedback on technical tactical operational logistical and personnel matters and what impact management and players believed they might have had on team performance.The committee also questioned team personnel on the committee s impressions of the season and particularly the November Tour performances. We review the Springbok season with the national coach at the end of each year but this year s process has been given extra attention because of profoundly disappointing results Alexander said. This was not a witch hunt but a proper process to interrogate where things went wrong with a focus on finding answers and ensuring that it does not happen again. This has been a period of introspection for SA Rugby with all of us looking at our role in a dreadful season. That process will continue into January as we examine the options at our disposal. We will act upon whatever interventions are identified as being necessary by all involved. I would expect that process to be completed before the end of January. - TMG Digital