The N2 from KwaZulu-Natal which winds its way through the Eastern Cape to the Western Cape has been identified as one of the most hazardous holiday routes based on last year s fatalities by the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC).Traffic authorities and emergency services will monitor the country s most dangerous roads as families travel to their year-end holiday destinations on what for hundreds of loved ones will be roads of no return.Transport Minister Dipuo Peters said there were 220 more deaths over the festive season last year - up by 14% from 2014 - to 1755 people killed. Most of the 1253 crashes between December 1 2015 and January 11 2016 happened on weekends and were caused by people breaking the law such as being drunk behind the wheel overtaking dangerously and jaywalking.The RTMC said this week that there were 14 particularly hazardous routes to take note of this festive season. The second-most dangerous stretch of road is the N1 spanning Limpopo the Free State and the Western Cape where there were 67 fatal crashes over the holidays last year.Other routes which registered high fatalities include the R61 in the Eastern Cape the N3 in KwaZulu-Natal the N4 in Mpumalanga and the North West the N11 in Mpumalanga and the N12 in Gauteng the North West and the Western Cape.The R40 N17 and R23 are high accident zones in Mpumalanga along with the R33 in KwaZulu-Natal and N73 in the Eastern Cape. The last two routes on the hazardous list are the N7 in the Western Cape and R102 in KwaZulu-Natal.RTMC spokesman Simon Zwane said traffic chiefs hoped to reduce the carnage this year by focusing operations on days during which most collisions occurred and on factors that contribute to fatalities.Fridays Saturdays and Sundays are generally associated with a high number of collisions including pay-day weekends and long weekends.Drunk driving speed fatigue and uncontrolled pedestrian behaviour are some the human factors that will be policed said Zwane.Tips to stay safe on the roadThe Automobile Association says motorists need to properly prepare their vehicles for long trips and is offering an interactive map of road conditions showing roadworks and problems on major routes so that journeys can be planned. The annual summer holidays are a great time to relax and recover from the past year. But it is also a time when motorists need to be extra vigilant on the roads. Along with plans for the perfect holiday motorists also need to ensure their vehicles are in tip-top condition for the road and that their attitudes are similarly in good shape to negotiate the journey says the AA.Travel tips include planning travel routes before departing stopping every 200kms or every two hours to rest refuel and refresh. Also try to avoid peak travel days. If possible leave a day sooner or a day later. Do the same for the return leg of your journey. Buckle up - This includes all passengers including toddlers under three who legally must be in a car seat says the AA. Obey the rules of the road and drive according to conditions. If the road is marked 120km/h but visibility is poor decrease your speed to ensure you properly see the road ahead. Don t be distracted by cellphones and electronic devices.Don't drink and driveDrunk driving is a major cause of carnage on the roads. Every crash affects dozens of family members and friends claiming the lives of fathers mothers children and bread-winners. Earlier this month Diageo launched its 2017 Drive Dry campaign. The company is using South African storytellers to deliver emotional lessons on the effects of drunken driving.Drive Dry previously known for its award-winning scare campaign Papa Wag Vir Jou is using the power of storytelling to change behaviour towards drinking and driving. South Africans can follow the conversation tell their own stories and watch the video clips on social media using the hashtag #ThisIsMyStory Avoid traffic fines for behaving badly behind the wheelSpeeding and bad behaviour could cost you dearly over the festive seasons. Slow down especially when passing through small towns on the journey.Code for South Africa crunched the numbers to investigate how municipalities on major routes were using fines to generate revenue.In the financial year ending June 2014 R3.3-billion in revenue from fines was reported by municipalities. Ubuntu Municipality also known as Richmond on the N1 route between Johannesburg and Cape Town generates 49% of its revenue comes from fines - more than rates electricity water refuse removal and sewage combined. TMG Digital