President Jacob Zuma on behalf of the government extended the country s condolences to the affected countries and families.In Germany police are treating as a probable terrorist attack the killing of 12 people when a speeding lorry cut a bloody swathe through a Berlin Christmas market the AFP news agency reports. At least 48 more were wounded when the truck tore through the crowd on Monday night smashing wooden stalls and crushing victims AFP said in scenes reminiscent of July s deadly attack in the French Riviera city of Nice. The South African Government condemns in the strongest terms terrorist attacks in any form and from whichever quarter. We send our heartfelt condolences to the families and loved ones of the deceased and we wish all the injured speedy recoveries said the President.President Zuma also sent South Africa s condolences to the Russian Federation as well as the family of the Russian Ambassador to Turkey Andrey Karlov following his assassination on Monday evening in Ankara Turkey.In a statement issued by the Department of International Relations and Cooperation President Zuma said: The South African Government joins the international community in condemning this brutal attack against a diplomat which is in violation of the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. We would like to convey our deepest condolences to H.E President Vladimir Putin the Government of the Russian Federation and in particular to the family of the Ambassador Karlov. We also wish those injured in the attack a speedy and full recovery. Terrorism in any form and from whichever quarter constitutes one of the most serious threats to international peace and security and any acts of terrorism are criminal unjustifiable and cannot be condoned. Also on Monday evening a gunman stormed into the prayer hall of a mosque in Zurich Switzerland and opened fire wounding three people before fleeing.President Zuma said: The South African Government condemns the cowardly attack on worshippers at prayer in Zurich on Monday evening. Acts of violence and extremism have no place in society and constitute a threat to development peace and security. We wish the injured a speedy recovery. The worshippers were mainly from North Africa Somalia and Eritrea the ATS news agency reported.The Dirco statement said South Africa reiterated its commitment to international initiatives aimed at fighting the scourge of terrorism and violent extremism.