The official opposition briefed reporters on their 2016 report card for Zuma deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa and 37 government ministers in Parliament on Thursday. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said Zuma s performance got worse since last year. While the majority (23) of members in the executive scored an E symbol or worse the worst symbol possible (F-) was reserved for Zuma and the ministers of mineral resources as well as cooperative governance and traditional affairs. Maimane said Zuma started the year off on a rocky note when he removed former finance minister Nhlanhla Nene and replaced him with Van Rooyen for less than a weekend before replacing him with Pravin Gordhan. Maimane said what would follow that faux pas was a year in which loyal Zuma ministers would tie themselves closer to him and a year in which the Constitutional Court told Zuma that he violated his oath of office. Not only has President Jacob Zuma violated his oath of office this year as found by the Constitutional Court it is also clear that he was compelled to pay back the money. Even last year he appointed a finance minister who stayed on for the weekend said Maimane. Maimane said Ramaphosa received a D symbol given a lack of progress in programmes under his responsibility such as the turnaround of state owned enterprises and mediation between party leaders in his role as leader of government business. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said Zwane emerged as one of the poorest performers due to his ties to the influential Gupta family detailed in the last report of former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela. Steenhuisen said Van Rooyen s ardent defence of Zuma and the Guptas and his attempt at interdicting the State Capture report meant that he was ineffectual as a minister. Ministers who received the F symbol included Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane Police Minister Nathi Nhleko Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown and State Security Minister David Mahlobo. While no members of the executive received an A the DA were kinder to Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and Science and Technology Minister Naledi Pandor who each received a B symbol. Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom Public Service and Administration Minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi Arts and Culture minister Nathi Mthethwa and Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Partel each received a C symbol. A further 18 ministers including Minister of Higher Education and Training Blade Nzimande and Defence Minister Nosiviwe Masipa Nqakula scored a D symbol.TMG Digital/BusinessLive