Speaking at a a Day of Reconciliation celebration at Gopane near Zeerust in North West province which was disrupted by a storm that caused a tent to collapse Zuma said the government was currently engaged in a programme of finding missing persons and also handing over of the remains of former political prisoners who were executed by the apartheid government to their families. At least 130 political prisoners were hanged for politically-related offences in the period between 1960 and 1990. The state retained custody of the remains of the deceased thereby denying their families the opportunity to receive or bury them he said.The apartheid state buried the deceased political prisoners as paupers in cemeteries in and around Tshwane despite the fact that their families were willing to receive the bodies for burial. Of the 130 hanged political prisoners Zuma said 47 had already been exhumed by other parties groups or individuals. Eighty-three remain to be recovered and these are the remains of former members of the Pan-Africanist Congress who were executed in the 1960s as well as United Democratic Front activists who were hanged in the 1980s. The democratic Government launched the Gallows Exhumation Project on 23 March 2016 at Kgosi Mampuru Correctional Centre in Pretoria to begin the exhumation of the mortal remains of the 83 political prisoners. This week on 14 December 2016 the remains of twelve Eastern Cape PAC members who were executed in 1964 for the Mbasheriver construction site incident were exhumed at Rebecca Street Cemetery in Tshwane. The remains of other two activists who were also executed for their part in the Mbashe incident shall be exhumed in January 2017 Zuma said. This left the government with 71 remains to be exhumed. We acknowledge the work of the Missing Persons Task Team and the Truth and Reconciliation Unit in the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development who undertake this difficult task. It is a taxing and painful period for the families. We trust that this process will assist them to find closure Zuma added.