There was chaos at the end of the match at Makhulong Stadium in Tembisa with Highlands fans unhappy with some of referee Khulekani Thusi s decisions many of which controversially went against the home side. Fed up with a series of perceived poor decisions the Highlands fans protested violently baying for the blood of referee Thusi. Thusi and his team of match officials had to be escorted off the pitch by security personnel for fear of being harmed by the agitated supporters who damaged the fence surrounding the tunnel leading to the dressing rooms. You know what it s not even worthy of me talking about it. I mean you guys were watching the game I don t need to talk. Why must I say it so that you can say The coach said this said a visibly disappointed Igesund. You were watching the game. I mean you ve got a fourth official who had to tell the referee that s a free-kick and that This should be like this . I mean what s he doing on the field if he can t make his own decisions? I m not going to talk about it but look I wasn t unhappy [with my team s performance]. Like I ve said before I wanted to get past this difficult period which I knew was going to be very difficult. Highlands are struggling in second-from-bottom on the Absa Premiership with 13 points from 15 matches. Newly-promoted teams have found the going tough in their maiden PSL seasons and many have dropped back to the second tier after spending just one campaign in the top-flight. But Igesund is adamant that fate will not befall Highlands. This team will never get relegated I can tell you now. I mean be realistic. We ve got to win four games and draw five games to survive. "And this team is getting stronger with each game. So I ve got nothing to worry about. This team will never get relegated said Igesund. Highlands will resume their campaign after the Christmas break with a trip to Cape Town Stadium to face Cape Town City on Tuesday 7 February 2017 and host Polokwane City in Tembisa two days later. - TMG Sport