Ajax have won three games in a row including a 2-0 home success over champions Mamelodi Sundowns and lifted themselves off the bottom of the table after the worst start to a Premier League season in the club s history.Another victory over basement side Highlands Park could send them seven points clear of the drop-zone and thinking of a top-eight place.But defeat could see them potentially sucked back into the relegation mix.Menzo believes it has been a shift in mind-set from his side more than anything that has seen them pick up their hat-trick of victories the latest a 1-0 win over a stubborn Lamontville Golden Arrows on Saturday a dire game that was settled by Nathan Paulse s late goal. We are on track the players have started to work hard and they are starting to believe we can win it " he said."Even when we were struggling in the second half [against Golden Arrows] they believed we could win."As long as you believe the chance [to win the game] will come. Menzo was also boosted by the return from a facial injury of Paulse who won the penalty that led to the winning goal and then turned home the rebound after his spot-kick was saved by Nkosi Gumede in the Golden Arrows goal. It was a good moment to bring Nathan on he looked good and he trained well."Prince (Nxumalo) was not really in the game."It is a team effort and the next guy to come in has to correct that and he did. It was his header [that won the penalty]. It s good for him to come back like this. But Menzo says the improved defensive display of his team which has seen them keep back-to-back clean-sheets is as pleasing as the wins. As long as the goalkeeper keeps a clean sheet we have one point and that s important to give confidence."For a young team like this it is not easy after a win against Sundowns to play a game like this where the opposition make it very difficult for you. Discipline organisation is important and that we did well."What we were lacking was finding the free man creating chances in the small space. But that will come. After Highlands Park Ajax finish their 2016 year with an away trip to another struggling side Bloemfontein Celtic (December 17) and then have a home game against Chippa United (December 21).- TMG Digital