The way in which radio audiences are measured underwent a radical shift, thanks to the BRC and TNS Research Surveys.For 40 years, the South African Advertising and Research Foundation (SAARF) solely handled all major audience research for all South African radio stations. It made use of the diary method of conducting research.How it worked is that, radio self-completion diaries were placed with respondents to complete in their homes over a 7-day period, for which they were offered a small incentive. Respondents were instructed on how to complete the RAMS Diary.With the field work only done once every three months using a very small sample size, it's reported that a number of radio big wigs expressed their dissatisfaction in SAARF's measurement methodologies, before calling for a new radio audience research body, which would truly reflect the current generation of listeners.Soon after, a formation of the BRC introduced a fresh format, which signalled a new era in radio audience measurement for the country, seeking to accommodate the unique and diverse South African market.What impact did SAARF RAMS' disproportionate samples have on listenership figures?Given that SAARF RAMS samples did not correspond particularly closely with the realities of our country, does that mean we were, for years, duped into believing that the numbers, radio stations fed us were accurate?"I wouldn't say that radio stations were giving out wrong numbers of listeners," BRC CEO Clare O'Neil told The Media Online during an interview."I would suggest that radio stations were reporting on the numbers that this particular instrument, that was deployed into the market, brought back. Conversely, BRC RAM is another instrument. It's a completely different instrument. And that instrument is bringing back the numbers, that its bringing back right now. I wouldn't go as far as to say 'wrong', I would go as far as to say it was a different methodology."Flaws in the old measuring systemClare explained that the biggest problem with SAARF is the fact that it shied away from moving with the times to truly reflect SA's demographics."I think SAARF tried to be all things to all media types, which I think, probably from... the 90's, it was the wrong move. I think each media type needs it's own currency. It needs to be independent of other currencies."The drop in numbers?Metro FM boasted a weekly listenership of 6,388,000 in the last quarter of 2014, according to a RAMS report by SAARF.According to the report, the station reached 6,856,000 weekly listeners towards the end of 2015.However, from January to September this year, the BRC reported that the station was sitting on a weekly listenership of 3,968,000.While others argue that the drop in Metro's numbers are due to the 90% local music quota that was introduced to all SABC radio stations in May, some believe that this is due to the new measuring system by the BRC."Generations of South Africans grew up on Metro FM s Sunday programming and until the 90% decision was made, they boasted a highly unusual proposition in that their Sunday listening beat out their weekday drive shows over and over again," Justine Cullinan, who is a columnist for The Media Online, as well as, the station manager at 5FM wrote on the website.On the other hand, Clare pointed out that it's difficult to compare the data, given that the BRC and SAARF made use of different methodologies, which obviously yielded completely different results."I don't think we should look at the data like that... Did Metro really lose 2 million (listeners)? No, they didn't. The listeners might not have been there in the first place... because the methodologies are different," she said.She further explained that while the BRC instrument, that was deployed into the market, brought back reduced figures for a number of big stations, other radio platforms saw gains in their numbers. She suggested that the listeners were always there, but the old measuring system failed to reach out to them."This is the start of a whole new world. This is the start of reading the market as it should be read. So if we talk about losing listeners, we could also talk about gaining."So many of the community stations are now literally in the top 10 of audience share in every single province in the country... The audience were there all the time. They just weren't being read, because the sample frame just didn't get to those people to read what was really going on. I don't think one can make the comparisons of gains and loses. I think it's a matter of reflecting on the fact that this is a different instrument, that was deployed into the market and these are the results that are coming back."Reduced listenership figures: Do we point fingers at 90% or the old measuring format ?The field work for BRC's new measuring instrument began on 7 January. The 90% policy was implemented in May. The first BRC RAM report was published in August.Therefore, according to Justine, "there is no real way to assess how the 90% decision has affected stations because consistently trended data cannot be reviewed across the period".SABC spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago also denied that 90% had anything to do with reduced listenership figures."If 90% was the cause of numbers dropping at radio stations, such as Metro, then it should also affect other SABC stations," he told TshisaLIVE."As you might know, Ukhozi has maintained its numbers and they've remained the biggest radio station in the country. Ratings go up and down for various reasons. People need to stop pushing the narrative that people of South Africa do not like their own music."Kaizer further suggested that stations who suffered a dip in their numbers this year should look at their programming, analyse and see what should and can be done to elevate their rankings."These figures only affect us when it comes to advertising. So, as usual, we will look into them and see how we plough back."The BRC will release transparent, stand-alone radio figures four times a year based on six months worth of data collection.