Ntsiki first spoke out about the trauma of her rape ordeal earlier this year but has returned to her blog, and social media to speak about the ordeal. Taking to Twitter, Ntsiki said that she never thought a "strong and feisty girl" like her would be raped.I thought that rape didnt happen to strong and feisty girls like me....... Daughter Of The Soil (@ntsikimazwai) November 30, 2016 I thought that rape didnt happen to strong and feisty girls like me.......The singer also said that she did not think of herself as a survivor of rape, but rather a victim that has had no choice but to survive.i dont think I am a survivor of rape...i was a victim of my body being violated. survival was my only choice... Daughter Of The Soil (@ntsikimazwai) November 30, 2016 i dont think I am a survivor of rape...i was a victim of my body being violated. survival was my only choice...Ntsiki tweeted that she had been "in denial for year". And in an emotionally-charged blog post detailed her rape ordeal and how she later lashed out at her attacker and had to be restrained.She also said that she had never intended to talk about her rape when she took to Twitter in August but that it had all come out.She tweeted about how speaking out had helped her heal from the ordeal.The more you talk about your pain, the less hurtful it becomes.......vomit it all out! tell your story.... Daughter Of The Soil (@ntsikimazwai) November 30, 2016 Who cares if they dont believe you? You KNOW what happened. YOU know the truth......TELL YOUR STORY Daughter Of The Soil (@ntsikimazwai) November 30, 2016 Even if i was walking around naked......I DID NOT ASK TO BE RAPED Daughter Of The Soil (@ntsikimazwai) November 30, 2016 Even if no one believes me........I DID NOT ASK TO BE RAPED!!!! Daughter Of The Soil (@ntsikimazwai) November 30, 2016 I am not going to blame myself for something disgusting that was done to me Daughter Of The Soil (@ntsikimazwai) November 30, 2016 The more you talk about your pain, the less hurtful it becomes.......vomit it all out! tell your story....Who cares if they dont believe you? You KNOW what happened. YOU know the truth......TELL YOUR STORYEven if i was walking around naked......I DID NOT ASK TO BE RAPEDEven if no one believes me........I DID NOT ASK TO BE RAPED!!!!I am not going to blame myself for something disgusting that was done to me </img> Find the hottest celebrity and entertainment news on TshisaLIVE or follow TshisaLIVE on Facebook and Twitter.