Department of Home Affairs spokesman Thabo Mokgola speaking from the Ficksburg border post in the Free State on Thursday said: "Naturally you will see more traffic at ports of entry due to festive-season travel."As holidaymakers leave Gauteng traffic on major highways started backing up at toll plazas. The South African National Roads Agency (Sanral) shared videos on Twitter to guide motorists through toll gates and roadworks along the N1 N2 and N3 routes.According to live traffic updates provided by Sanral Cape Town experienced heavy delays on the N1 southbound towards the city.In Durban, the Automobile Association (AA) reported heavy delays on the N2 westbound and the N7 southbound. On the N3 between Johannesburg and Durban long queues formed at the Mariannhill toll plaza in the direction of Durban. Traffic heading south towards Durban on the N3 between 11am and 12pm on Thursday amounted to 1,280 cars passing through the Mooi plaza 840 through the De Hoek plaza 770 through the Tugela plaza and 680 through the Wilge plaza.A number of accidents in Johannesburg on Thursday morning slowed down traffic in Germiston Edenvale and Eldorado Park. Traffic was also heavy on the N1 southbound.Mokgola joined Department of Home Affairs director-general Mkuseli Apleni and Lesotho's Home Affairs Principal Secretary Borenahabokhete Sekonyela at the Ficksburg and Maseru Bridge entry ports on Thursday in a bid to urge Lesotho nationals to apply for special permits allowing them to study work and do business in South Africa.On the ground the Ficksburg border was busy with traffic volumes expected to increase going both ways Mokgola said. At Ficksburg we processed over 7,000 [people] just yesterday. Per year you have over 120,000 people [coming through the port]. Yesterday we were at 119,000 [people] so you can imagine what's going to happen next week. To cope with higher traffic volumes the department has deployed additional staff to its entry ports with the busiest ports expected to be OR Tambo International Airport and the Beitbridge border post. It has also extended hours at some border posts.Travellers going between South Africa and Zimbabwe reportedly queued for hours at Beitbridge this week.