Sthandiwe first shot into the mainstream spotlight decades ago, playing the role of twin sisters Zoleka and Zinzi on Generations. It's a role that she, to this day, is remembered fondly for."People still refer to me by my old character's names... It's humbling to know that I still have a part in some people's lives," she said.But the acting role came as a surprise to Sthandiwe, especially since she wasn't even planning to audition."I had just started at SAFM and my friend asked me to take her to an audition for Generations. I was there and acting like a cool person when Mfundi Vundla came out and just started chatting. He asked me what I was doing there and he eventually convinced me to just audition. I went in with no preparation, and really no fear, and I got the job! I was so surprised!"I believe that if you are meant for a job, it will find you. Even if you are sitting in a parking lot thinking you are too cool," Sthandiwe said.A creative at heart, Sthandiwe said she even made her own costumes during the show."When I was on Generations, I made my own costume. As a creative you are never done. One day you are in front of the camera and the next day you are painting and the following day you are producing something or opening a shop. You can't be put into a box because your mind is always creating," she said.It's this flair for the creative that has seen the star's children rush to show their mother off to all their friends."The one thing they (my children) have taught me is that I am great... and that I am hilarious. They think I'm so cool. When I drop them off at school, in my Simon and Mary hats and clothes that I have designed, they want me to come and greet their friends," she said.She said that besides being constantly inspired, she has learnt that in order to survive in the industry she has had to dabble in several different ventures, including fashion and production."There are only so many platforms available for actors. What are they supposed to do when that is their only job? Acting is their daily bread. How are they supposed to support themselves and their families? People who criticise are the ones who have a solid paycheck and medical aid, but as actors we grab what we can get to make ends meet."Why do you think that this is one of the only industries where, when someone dies, everyone regroups and pools resources to support the family? Because for many this is literally all they have," Sthandiwe said firmly.