Mbele said underachieving Pirates need to tread carefully with their decision-making processes during this six-week break in the Premier Soccer League.The Buccaneers sit in 10th place in the PSL having ended 2016 with five games without a win three of those defeats.Caretaker-coach Augusto Palacios has had a number of challenges taking over after the shock departure of Muhsin Ertugral left Bucs reeling following a 6-1 defeat against SuperSport United in early November just 10 league and cup matches into the season.Palacios has identified the number of new players at the club players lacking in character of previous stalwarts Lucky Lekgwathi Rooi Mahamutsa and Siyabonga Sangweni and Bucs being in a rebuilding phase from that generation as stumbling blocks to picking up the pieces from the fallout of Ertugral s departure.Mbele said Pirates management are aware of the challenges facing Palacios.He said the coach was always viewed as a stand-in but that anyone Bucs might want to appoint permanently is currently employed. Obviously as a club we are not satisfied with where the club is positioned taking into account the extenuating factors Mbele said. But you ve also got to look at it in terms of its broader context and recognise that Augusto came in as a stopgap measure. I think with the loss of the coach [Ertugral] some of these things have started to develop. Nobody I think could have anticipated all of these things at the start of the season. Because up until we lost to SuperSport our only loss had been against Wits in a cup competition [2-1 in the MTN8]. So from everything seeming to move in a direction the wheels have come off. Having said that I think it would have been difficult for any coach to come in at that time and be able to get the ship steered in a direction. The one thing we should not do is to throw the baby out with the water. We are going to have to have a lot of level heads to see the best way we can go. Our desire would be that Augusto would be there on a temporary basis until such time that we were able to get a coach. But that process is on-going. Let s also appreciate that the coaches that we want are presently engaged. So we are having to tread very carefully in terms of the process and our next steps going forward. Pirates have played eight league and cup matches under Palacios winning three drawing two and losing three. - TMG Digital