The unbelievably candid Eymael who was appointed in July did not mince his words after Chiefs beat City 3-2 in a five-goal thriller and said some of his charges really let him down.The Belgian said he has told his players more than 2000 times since joining the club to stop looking at him when the ball is crossed and to watch the ball instead.He said this basic instruction was ignored by as far as he was concerned and he described Chiefs strongman Willard Katsande s winning goal in stoppage time as an early Christmas present. The third goal was Happy Christmas before the date huh? How can my defender jump like that like a small horse over the ball? No he said. It was 50/50 and he only had to put his foot in to put the ball away. I am sorry I am very disappointed because most of my players made a big effort to get this point. Eymael felt that City could have taken control of the game had they converted a penalty they were awarded by referee Victor Hlungwani after Katsande brought down Puleng Tlolane in the 23rd minute in the first half.Striker Rodney Ramagalela s shot was brilliantly saved by Chiefs goalkeeper Brilliant Khuzwayo who kept the visibly shaken hosts in the game.Ramagalela made amends seven minutes later when he beat Khuzwayo with a low shot to finally put City in the lead.City spurned several other opportunities that the Belgian felt would have given the visitors a more comfortable lead than the lone strike they managed to convert in the first half. We missed a penalty again and I think it s the third one we ve missed this season. It s unbelievable at this level. Chiefs clawed their way back in the second half and Bernard Parker ended his barren spell he had not scored in the league in a year when he equalised in the 62th minute.Parker turned provider 10 minutes later when his cross found recently signed Joseph Molangoane who duly converted his first goal in Chiefs colours since joining them from Chippa United last month.Tlolane equalised for the visitors in the 82nd minute but Katsande became the hero for the hosts when he scored the winner in stoppage time.An incensed Eymael described the three goals his side conceded in the second half as gifts that should never have been. In the second half for me the three goals were three gifts. Okay it is normal because Steve is happy and it is a long time since he won a game. Me I am not happy because the two crosses came from the wings. City play their final game of the year against SuperSport United at Lucas Moripe Stadium on Wednesday and it remains to be seen if the players Eymael said were killing his job will come to the party. - TMG Digital