The Pretoria team went top of the PSL with their final 2-1 victory of 2015 against Polokwane City at Lucas Moripe Stadium in midweek ahead of the league s six-week break for Christmas and the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations.Baxter is correct though that his side while showing an ability to grind out a result have often done that while looking decidedly patchy and unconvincing over a 90-minute period in many of their games.The win against Polokwane was a case in point. Left-back Onismor Bhasera s stray pass led to City striker Rodney Ramagalela s seventh-minute opener and SuperSport were under the cosh from Polokwane s lively frontline for the first hour of the game despite Cole Alexander having pulled a goal back from an attempted cross in the 36th.A penalty by Jeremy Brockie (69th) earned SuperSport their sixth victory from 14 games and top spot.Baxter said the six-week break will help SuperSport reduce their lengthy injury list which should help the team in terms of their authority dominating games. We will go to the break we will try to get as many of our players back as we can and we will be in better shape selection-wise and competition-wise the coach said. But we ve got to start putting together longer periods of better quality. And not these silly goals after five minutes of the game goal directly after we d scored against Cape Town City directly after we scored against Chiefs. We ve been giving away so many points that I don t want to think about where we would be if we had just managed the games better. In terms of being top the biggest compliment I can pay to the players is that we ve had such an injury list. Teams who ve had the sort of injuries and suspensions we ve had are normally eighth in the league and they ll use that as an excuse but we ve barely mentioned it The biggest compliment to the players is that if they could pull off a top three place after what they ve gone though it would be magnificent.We ve had 17 fit players for two games. We ve had Clayton Daniels sitting on the bench with a broken arm so that we weren t embarrassed and could just put 17 players in. Once we get everyone fit I ve got a few more options. If I can get Kingston Nkhatha Bradley Grobler and Jeremy Brockie back to full fitness then I think we can maybe rotate a bit. With the wide players we have now Aubrey Modiba and Thabo Mnyamane if I can get Thuso Phala and Dove Wome back too it will be OK. We ll be OK when I can get everybody fit in terms of how we approach games where I can rest this player and play that player. It s been a real slog and I m proud of the players for carrying things as well as they ve done. I still think we re the ones flying under the radar a little bit and we will be the underdogs. But we ll take that. Among SuperSport s injuries Tefu Mashamaite Keagan Ritchie Fagrie Lakay Grant Kekana and Thabo Mahkhele have been out for a long-term period.Dove Wome Alexander Brockie Dean Furman Clayton Daniels Bradley Grobler and Ronwen Williams have been in and out of the side this season carrying injuries.- TMG Digital/TMG Sport