The decision announced at a press conference on Thursday afternoon was to allow the process of appointing his replacement to proceed smoothly . Sithole's coveted and powerful position will now be taken by Dumisile Nene deputy city manager for human resources and corporate services in an acting capacity for three months. Sithole and mayor Zandile Gumede held a joint press briefing on Thursday afternoon where the latter denied that Sithole had been suspended or placed on leave. Gumede said the move to accelerate Sithole's contract was to allow for continuity since Sithole was also an applicant. Sithole whose five-year contract as head of the city administration ends on December 31 was reportedly told by Gumede to take leave until the end of the month. Sithole citing municipal processes defied the order. Gumede denied this interpretation."There's no such thing. Yes there was an agreement between the city manager and the council to allow the process of appointing a new manager to proceed smoothly as there were other candidates while he's also another " said Gumede. She said the process would be as transparent as possible and the council had also resolved to use the services of an outside recruitment agency to see the process through. The DA alleged on Wednesday that Sithole was forced out of the post for refusing to bend to ANC demands to employ party loyalists.The claims have been vehemently denied by the ANC. Gumede said today's decision was taken by the Executive Committee (ExCo) which met behind closed doors to discuss "senior managers posts". Sithole was given a chance to speak at the press conference but said he had nothing to add to the joint statement supplied. "I have nothing to add " said the man who once styled himself as the doctor of sick municipalities owing to his intervention in a number of ailing councils in KwaZulu-Natal. Gumede heaped praised at Sithole while also allaying the fears of staff and residents saying everything was under control in the city. She lambasted the media saying what had been reported in the papers was untrue and that there was no spat between her and Sithole. - TMG Digital/The Times