In an affidavit read out in the Wynberg Magistrate s Court by his attorney one of the four men accused of murdering raping and robbing the 16-year-old pointed the finger at one of his co-accused.Howard Oliver of Westlake said Jonathan Jonas known as Jakkals held him hostage in the fynbos while he raped Franziska.The schoolgirl was strangled and suffocated and sustained blunt-force trauma when she was attacked in Tokai forest on March 7. Sand was found in her throat and she had been raped vaginally and anally.She had arranged to meet her mother after going jogging by herself. When Franziska did not arrive at the agreed meeting place the family began to worry and her body was found during a search. She had been robbed of her iPhone watch headset and diamond ring.Oliver filed his affidavit in support of a bail application saying Jonas had threatened him and threatened to kill his wife.He said on the day of the murder March 7 he was supposed to pay R200 arrears to his child's creche. He went around the community asking for a loan and after failing to get one he bought a mandrax tablet with his last R10.He went to Klein Constantia where he was a labourer earning R120 a day and asked if he could take the day off to sort out the matter.He left at about midday and walked home where he smoked his mandrax and ate lunch. He said at that point he realised there were lots of people running in the forest with their dogs and he had the idea of robbing one of them to get the money he needed.He then found Jonas in the forest and after telling him about his idea saw someone jogging with a cellphone strapped to her arm.He approached her and choked her from behind until she slipped out of his arms unconscious. He took the cellphone and wanted to leave.However she regained consciousness and Jonas pulled out a gun and pointed it at her before robbing her of a necklace and a ring.Jonas then grabbed the girl and told Oliver to go into the fynbos with them. Jonas claimed he pleaded with him to let him and the girl go.Jonas said he thought Franziska was still breathing when they left her in the fynbos.Oliver said he tried to sell the cellphone to people next to the side of the road but no one wanted to buy it because it had a pin code.He then said he then asked Jerome Moses to help him sell the phone. They eventually sold it to Daniel Easter. Moses and Easter are also facing charges in the case.Oliver seemed stressed and afraid as the affidavit was read. Moses exchanged a glance with Jonas who was laughing and shaking his head.As Jonas who was in chains walked down the steps to the cells at the lunch break he made a hand signal to Moses as if to say I'm watching you".The hearing continues.-TMG Digital/Cape Newsroom