Pikitup however denies this and says its fleet is being maintained.An investigation by TMG Digital in different suburbs revealed that certain areas in the city have their wheelie bins collected very late in the day or not at all.Some residents who questioned Pikitup workers are being told there is a shortage of trucks and that is why refuse collection is not as efficient as it should be.Areas like Yeoville Observatory Berea Killarney Norwood and other suburbs in eastern Johannesburg are struggling with this problem.John Matthews a property owner in Observatory explained his predicament. Refuse collection is a problem in our neighbourhood. They are supposed to come on Friday morning. When I take the wheelie bins out in the morning I find that they have not been emptied at 12pm midday. In other weeks they will only come the next day said Matthews.He added: When the truck does not come in the morning the bins are stolen by those boys who sleep in the streets. You have to have somebody in the house who will make sure that when the truck finally arrives the bins are taken back into the yard. Also the bins are a health hazard when not taken on time as they cause rats. But it is not just trucks collecting household rubbish that are problematic. TMG Digital visited some of the garden dump sites where residents bring all forms of waste. The sites can only accommodate a certain amount of waste on any given day. At one site which is not being named to protect workers from being victimised containers where residents dump garden waste were completely full. Just two were able to take more waste.One of the workers explained that the area is supposed to be serviced by 10 compact trucks but only four are currently available.The garden site receives at least 200 vehicles a day. Containers for construction debris were full and vehicles bringing more were not allowed to drop it off.Of the other 10 containers which take garden waste nine were full and there was only one left. It is difficult for us working here. People refuse to drive back with the waste and choose to dump it outside our facility. They are angry. They tell they pay tax so we must receive their waste one of the workers said.At the facility there is a pile of wood dumped by an angry resident who refused to go to another site. Unfortunately for the workers security guards were not around to deal with the situation.In a written reply to enquiries Pikitup denies there is a shortage of trucks. The company said it has 151 trucks and 135 of them do refuse collection rounds daily. Out of the 151 trucks 16 are available for contingency situations. These 151 trucks are compactors specifically for refuse collection rounds and an additional 12 compactors for garden sites and 4 rolons/rolloffs said Pikitup spokesperson Bulelwa Zimbi.Roloff trucks take waste already piled into containers. Rolon trucks accept waste in a container attached to the truck. In order to meet the daily waste demands of the city 135 trucks are needed at a given day with a 10% contingency she said.She added that on average 37 trucks undergo scheduled and unscheduled maintenance. At any given day 135 trucks are operational including 16 contingency trucks. Given the short fall of 21 trucks based on the average maintenance figure ad hoc replacements are hired to cover the shortfall. On the shortage of trucks servicing garden sites Zimbi replied: There s no shortage of trucks but an ageing fleet. However there are ongoing discussions with the City to re-fleet old trucks. Another source close to Pikitup confirmed the problem: "There is a shortage of trucks at Pikitup. It is serious and it is big. Some of the trucks are too old and need constant maintenance. What we are hoping for is that the acting MD Lungile Dhlamini will be retained by the company because he seems to know how to turn things around here." 