Sundowns on Tuesday reached Hong Kong posting pictures on the club s official Twitter page in their journey to Osaka in Japan where they were due to arrive on Tuesday night.The Brazilians will become the first club from Southern Africa to compete at the 16-year-old Club World Cup (CWC) when they play their first match at Osaka s 40 000-seater Suita City Football Stadium on Sunday.Downs will meet the winners of a playoff on Thursday between Japan s Kashima Antlers and New Zealand s Auckland City.Mosimane said Downs winning the Caf Champions League last month is another sign of Southern African football finding its feet internationally.Aware of the responsibility of representing Africa at the CWC he said he hoped Sundowns could at least reach the semifinals. I think when I look at it differently the region [Southern Africa] has done exceptionally Mosimane said. I saw Namibia winning the Cosafa Cup (in 2015)."Normally Cosafa is Zimbabwe South Africa Zambia. So there s a bit of change there. I see Banyana Banyana representing us on a world stage Zesco United reaching the Champions League semi-finals Zimbabwe qualifying for the Africa Cup of Nations for the first time in 10 years. Then I think the region has come up very nicely and strongly. Going back to Japan we re representing Africa and I would be happy if we made the semifinals to make sure that we put Africa in the top four in the world. Because in the World Cup with national teams it s not happening. But now we have an opportunity to make it with a club. That s what I said. I said Maybe me as a person could not make it with Bafana [as coach in 2010 to 2012]. So I ll win the tournament that represents Africa through the club . And maybe our country should work through the clubs. Because we have ammunition at our clubs. And I ll be happy if Africa can take position three in this tournament. Because normally Europe and South America have the talent. Let s be honest Even with the money spent. Atletico Nacional and the money they have spent. We don t even have 5% of Real Madrid s budget. So that would be OK [third place] to put Africa on the right stage through the club. Should Sundowns beat Antlers or City they will face South American champions Atletico Nacional of Colombia in the semifinals.The winners of that match would face the winners of semifinal Match 6. There Real Madrid will face either of quarterfinalists Club America of Mexico (champions of Concacaf Confederation of North Central American and Caribbean Association Football) or South Korea s Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors (the Asian champions).TP Mazembe of Democratic Republic of Congo have been the most successful African team at a CWC reaching the 2010 final where they lost 3-0 to Inter Milan.Sundowns Club World Cup squad:Goalkeeper: Denis Onyango Wayne Sandilands Kennedy MweeneDefenders: Thabo Nthethe Tebogo Langerman Wayne Arendse Ricardo Nascimento Siyanda Zwane Soumahoro BangalyMidfielders: Keagan Dolly Asavela Mbekile Hlompho Kekana Teko Modise Sibusiso Vilakazi Tiyani Mabunda Lucky Mohomi Themba Zwane Mzikayise Mashaba Thapelo MorenaForwards: Leonardo Castro Khama Billiat Anthony Laffor Percy Tau- TMG Digital