This is according to online property seller PropertyFox which has compiled its predictions for the top five factors expected to change the way people buy and sell property in 2017.The Cape Town based company said after many decades of very little movement things are starting to shift rapidly in South Africa s residential property market."We anticipate 2017 will be a time when the industry disruption which has been gathering steam this year really takes hold. And when consumers look for creative ways to make their properties work for them " said Ashley James co-founder of PropertyFox.Here are five of the key changes PropertyFox expects to see in 2017:1. Fibre in the home a growing sales pointAreas where fibre is fully installed will be in high demand. The stable and fast internet connection makes working from home a more viable option.At the moment key areas which already offer fibre include central parts of Pretoria and Sandton but there are plans for roll-outs in many more suburban areas over the next year."This will be a drawcard for entrepreneurs gamers and families who use internet for TV education entertainment and more."2. Houses with boreholes are now more attractive than those with pools"The countrywide drought has given a lot of us a shock and we can now appreciate that water is going to be a less stable resource going forward. More and more buyers will be put off properties with pools which they ll see as expensive water guzzlers and find boreholed properties more attractive.""Linked to this houses which are eco-friendly in terms of electricity - which is now over-the-top expensive - and water will grow in demand as they keep monthly costs down and will be easy to sell " the company said.3. Owners will find other ways to earn income from their homesPeople will increasingly look to "sweat their assets" because firstly sites like Airbnb make it very easy to do so and secondly well that sluggish economy is forcing them to get creative PropertyFox said.In 2017 this may impact how people buy as they look for homes that will double as an appealing place to holiday. So where someone may have opted for a four-bed in Bergvliet in the past they may now be more tempted by a two-bed in Oranjezicht as it has more income potential. This trend will also impact decoration decisions as the more clean and neutral look goes down better on Airbnb.Related to this is getting a lodger to help cover costs."More and more people will forego their natural aversion to having a stranger in their midst in order to generate income from their property " the company predicted.4. Mom and pop investors swapping stocks for brick and mortarConfidence in returns from stock markets have been low for some time and prevailing political and economic upheaval mean this is unlikely to change anytime soon. Because property is a bricks and mortar investment which almost always delivers some sort of return many "moms and pops" are choosing to invest their retirement money in property PropertyFox said. The guaranteed rental income can be a safer bet than stock market returns it reckoned."On the whole this is not a bad thing for the property market except that it can make it harder for the 'bonded' to get their foot in the door as cash offers are always more attractive to sellers " the company said. 5. Estate agent commission under scrutinyFor years estate agent commissions have been pretty static roughly between five and seven percent of the sale price. "But the way that property is sold has changed thanks to technology and the hard costs of bringing the property to market are way lower now " PropertyFox said. It predicted a growth in its business and similar offerings as online sales "disruptors" typically charge consumers less than traditional agents.