Sundowns lost a second Premier Soccer League game of the season as they went down 2-0 to struggling Ajax Cape Town at Cape Town Stadium on Wednesday night in a match where Mosimane admitted his side were outplayed. We can t have everything. We cannot get 100 percent of the results. We have to understand we can t have our cake and eat it. We lost to a good team but perhaps it was not the right time to play Ajax because they come from a position where they needed the game more than us. And it showed on the pitch. They deserved to win. I like the way their coach analysed our team it s very good to find coaches doing their work and I was impressed. He has been working on it. That s our job we get paid for that. Sundowns were battling Mosimane added to focus on their PSL commitments. We are just in a different space our players are thinking differently. They used to talk PSL stuff but yesterday I heard them going through the teams that will play in the next year s Champions League and their discussions are now about Al Ahly is in Zamalek is not Zesco is out . They deserve it and we should appreciate what has been achieved. It s very difficult for them to focus on the PSL right now. The Club World Cup in Japan is big for us. We are living in another space bur we wanted it so we have no excuses. Sundowns host Free State Stars another club in the basement of the Absa Premiership standings in their last outing before heading to the Club World Cup.Mosimane said he would hand Colombian striker Leonardo Castro now over his ankle injury his first start of the season in Saturday afternoon s game at Loftus Versfeld along with a possible return from injury for Khama Billiat and Keagan Dolly.All three came off the bench in Wednesday night s match but were unable to break down a resolute Ajax defence. They all need some game time said Mosimane who has Anthony Laffor Tebogo Langerman Kennedy Mweene and Ricardo Nascimento on the injury list and said all their ailments were due to fatigue. - TMG Digital/TMG Sport