 We are deeply shocked to learn of the killing of Simo Ndlovu (37) IFP Chairperson of the Mambuka Branch in Ward 33 at Umhlatuze who was gunned down (on Sunday) night at his house " said Blessed Gwala IFP National Chairman and KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson on Community Safety &amp; Liaison.Lungisani Sithole (27) who was the Youth Publicity Secretary of Ndondwane Branch in Ward 32 was also killed on Sunday. Gwala said he was stabbed and killed at eSikhaleni while returning from his father's funeral."These are senseless killings of leaders who had much to contribute to their respective communities but their lives have been cut short in a most brutal manner. When families and communities are supposed to be enjoying the festive season they are now preparing to bury their loved ones. More die in KZN political killings as hearing takes shape It is unacceptable that people are indiscriminately killed while going about their daily lives. This must stop immediately before there is any more loss of innocent lives. These two killings come so soon after the brutal assassination of Inkosi Linda Mathonsi. I have made a request for the police to offer a reward to anyone who has information that will lead to the arrest and conviction of these killers. We cannot go on living in an environment where such lawlessness prevails and innocent citizens become random targets for killers who go unpunished."Gwala was intending to lead a delegation of IFP leaders including the leadership from Umhlautze to visit both families today.The African National Congress (ANC) in KwaZulu-Natal has also condemned the spate of political killings in the province.The party said it doesn t just want the gunmen behind a recent spate of killings brought to book; it also wants the law to come down hard on the people behind the attacks.The ANC comment came after Mbhekiseni Pat Khumalo 57 a ward 7 councillor in uPhongolo northern KZN was gunned down at his home at the weekend.He was the third ANC councillor to be murdered in the last five weeks.KZN ANC secretary Super Zuma said the party was worried about the motives for the killings. We don t know what the motives are. We want those who pulled the trigger yes but we re more interested in who is planning this Zuma said.