Tinkler handed debuts to experienced attacking midfielder Luyolo Nomandela and American-born Ghanaian teenager Nana Akosah-Bempah and was happy with the impact they made off the bench as City rescued a point with a late strike from Lebogang Manyama. Nomandela you could see he just lacks that sharpness but that will come with games Tinkler said. Game-by-game he will get stronger and start producing what we know he can. I thought he came on and did very well didn t lose the ball much tried to help the team in defence. The young boy [Akosah-Bempah] came on he s only 18 and he shows huge potential and a lot of aggression."He came on and made it difficult for the two big central defenders [Mario Booysen and Clayton Daniels] and I think that pressure paid off."I m happy with him and Nomandela. Tinkler was also pleased with the reaction from the home side after their dismal display in the 4-0 home mauling at the hands of Platinum Stars on Tuesday a result that Tinkler blamed on mental and physical fatigue after they won the Telkom Knockout just days prior.He says he would have been happy with a point prior to the SuperSport clash. Yes definitely. I explained to the players it was important for us not to lose the game."I did also state that collecting the three points would probably mean we went into the Christmas break knowing that we would be still top of the table. But more important than the result was the performance. A convincing performance was key for me and I think we saw that. In the first half I thought we were very very good and deserved to come in at halftime one or two up."Second half they started a little brighter than us and put us under pressure but we dealt with it. But one mistake by us costs us on the counter. Although I am lead to believe the goal [from Kingston Nkhatha] was offside. We deserved at least a point we certainly didn t deserve to lose. City will end 2016 with a tough away trip to Bethlehem to face Free State Stars on Wednesday. - TMG Digital