It was a good year for television series, thanks to online streaming and the upgrades to DStv's video-on-demand service. Netflix's arrival in January allowed local viewers to catch up on older shows as the culture of binge-watching took hold.Looking back on 2016, let's get the obvious out of the way. The sixth season of Game of Thrones was essentially more of the same - dreary rape fantasies and tittered nonsense - although the staggering Battle of the Bastards finale was perhaps the most epic in the history of TV. Was there life after GoT?Plenty, as it turned out.There were wonderful historical dramas. The BBC deserved acclaim for War and Peace, its superb adaptation of Tolstoy's masterpiece. It raised the bar in literature-to-series adaptations.ITV's Victoria, about the early life of Queen Victoria, from her accession to the throne at 18 through to her courtship and marriage to Prince Albert, was another sumptuous period piece. Jenna Coleman was outstanding as the young monarch. A second series and a Christmas special have been commissioned. Both will air next year.Still with the monarchy - and another young British queen - Netflix's The Crown was the true-life drama of the year. Claire Foy was perfect as a young but stoic Queen Elizabeth II, as was Matt Smith as her gaffe-prone husband, the Duke of Edinburgh. (In one memorable scene he asks a decorated Kenyan soldier where he stole his medals.) Special mention, too, for John Lithgow's performance as an aging Winston Churchill.This was television that refused to bow down to the Windsors. The Crown was much more than a dissection of the inner workings of a dysfunctional elite. The context of a monarchy, forced to adapt to an austere post-war climate as its empire was disassembled around it, made for fascinating viewing. More seasons are planned.Onto other worlds. Netflix's Stranger Things, the acclaimed sci-fi horror series that cast a knowing wink at the genre flicks of the 1980s, deserves a mention, if only for Winona Ryder's performance as the mother of a boy whose disappearance sets in motion major creepiness in an Indiana town. A second season is in the pipeline.Also on Netflix, the anthology series Black Mirror offered sometimes chilling, sometimes quirky cautionary tales on social media and other perils of the digital age. The episode in which a software programme films a teenaged boy masturbating to online pornography and then blackmails him should give every adolescent nightmares.The year's best dystopian exploration was HBO's Westworld, a vast-in-scope reboot of Michael Crichton's 1973 sci-fi movie. After a slow start pulling all those strands together, this robots-running-riot series became tremendous television, good to look at and stuffed with ideas. No news yet of a second season, but the story has been planned to last up to five seasons. Here's hoping.There was plenty of crime, too. The best cop drama was the BBC's Happy Valley, with an outstanding Sarah Lancashire as Siobhan Finneran, a detective inspector in West Yorkshire. Gritty, hard-boiled, but exceptionally moving stuff.Thanks to Netflix, viewers were able to catch up on such diverse gems as the quirky Lillyhammer, which starred The Sopranos' Steve van Zandt as a mobster who goes into witness protection, inexplicably, in northern Norway, and the gripping Narcos, in which the life and brutal times of Colombian drug czar Pablo Escobar is unpacked in meticulous detail.Netflix also had the year's best documentary series, Making A Murderer. A decade in the making, it detailed the misfortunes of a dirt-poor, white trash Wisconsin family when one of them, junkyard dealer Steven Avery, is arrested for murder and gets swallowed up in a wholly biased US justice system.It's a theme that's also explored in HBO's The Night Of, which was the best series of 2016. An outstanding crime procedural, loosely adapted from the BBC's Criminal Justice, it follows Nasir Khan, a young Pakistani immigrant played by Riz Ahmed, into a Stygian judicial system after a night-time joyride in his father's taxi goes terribly wrong.John Turturro is excellent as defence attorney John Stone. When he realises his client is a Muslim who has been charged with murdering a white girl, he asks Nasir, "Not to sound like a teabagger, but how do you feel about America?"Which must be the best line from the year's best television series. 