Speaking at an ANC Youth League gathering in Durban Thursday night he said: "Research takes long. It takes three years to research and two years to implement it...too much education is dangerous. It's like overdosing on your medicine. Motsoeneng said professors always tried to influence him and one even wanted to be his mentor."I said (to him) you always quote people and books saying 'so and so said this. When are you going to be quoted yourself?' He could not answer many of my questions and in the end I knew I should be his mentor " he said.Motsoeneng told people attending the ANCYL lecture on economic freedom why he supported Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma as the next president of South Africa and why he would not bow out like Eskom CE Brian Molefe."I want South Africa to make history. For far too long we have been led by men now I want a woman to lead " said Motsoeneng."I won't take a break. Unlike Brian Molefe I will run to where the noise is coming. I will work hard until we produce a better South Africa."The ANCYL said it had taken a decision to lobby for Motsoeneng as a national executive committee member of the ANC and for him to become a cabinet minister.Motsoeneng regaled the young party faithful with tales of how much he had achieved at the SABC even without aHe said the decision to play 90 percent local content was taken in 10 minutes during an SABC executive committee meeting."I said by 12 midnight local music should be played. They asked me how and I said that was not my business and for the first time in my life I switched off my cellphone that day. The 90 percent was in the interest of the public not the SABC exco."Motsoeneng said the 90 percent quota was conceived when he visited Jozini in KwaZulu-Natal and local people who are not professional artists gave an "astounding performance".Motsoeneng also entered the national political fray by referring to cabinet ministers who defied Zuma."People go to this NEC to be ministers but we should move away from appointing people as ministers just because they are in the NEC. If I was the president I would not appoint them. Take people from the branches and make them a minister " he said.He boasted about how many "young and ordinary people" he had hired at the SABC.He said people always complained about the lack of transformation when they were in charge."You know not all white people of this country hate transformation. Some are blacks in a white skin while some of our blacks are white inside he said."Many white managers at SABC have transformed their unit and I always say to black managers complaining about transformation that they must look at their neighbour " he said.Motsoeneng said while it was good to have foreign companies and multinationals in South Africa they should only stay for 30 years transfer skills and expertise and leave us in peace .