An infuriated Zahara took to social media to haul the publication over the coals for its choice of words.One of the publication's cover lines for the January issue reads: "Zahara: marriage, drugs and selling records".The Loliwe hitmaker was left fuming by the association of the word drugs with her name.Speaking to TshisaLIVE on Tuesday morning, Zahara said she was confused by the caption on the cover as the topic had not been discussed when the magazine interviewed her."Before the interview we had agreed on what we would talk about. In the interview we talked about hair, body and marriage. I was excited because this was the first time I revealed certain things about my love life but drugs and alcohol was never discussed," she said.The singer wants all copies of the magazine removed from shelves. "If they don't recall this cover today, I will be left with no choice but to take legal action against them. I'm going out this morning to look for magazines and if I find them, I will sue," she said.Zahara also expressed her anger on social media. "I honestly hope this is a sick joke from @truelovemagazine, how dare they put this type of headline on their cover! Why associate me with drugs?? This is an utterly tasteless and misleading caption!" she said.The singer added that she had received no response from True Love yet."I have been trying to call their offices but no one is answering! Fed up [with] my name always being used to sell magazines and newspapers," she added.TshisaLIVE tried to contact Nikki Ruttimann, the publisher of True Love, on Tuesday morning but she was not available.This is not the first time True Love has been called out by a cover star. Earlier this year, the women's magazine made headlines across the country after it released unedited pictures of TV personality Lerato Kganyago this after she had complained about the excessive use of Photoshop to edit her pictures.The publication's move sparked widespread anger and was seen as an attempt to body-shame Kganyago.Celebrities including rapper AKA and Bonang Matheba also blasted the magazine since Zahara called it out.How many times has this happened with True Love? Yet people still do covers for them. When will they learn that True Love is a piece of https://t.co/5NtjAsklWUTrue Love doesn't give a shit about women or their "stories" .... they just want to sell magazines. Whether they humiliate them or not.True Love is trash. https://t.co/jer1erAupA 