SuperSport s hard-fought 2-1 victory against Polokwane City at Lucas Moripe Stadium took the team to 13 games unbeaten in the league and to top of the log as the PSL breaks for Christmas and the Africa Cup Nations in Gabon in January. It was far from a convincing performance from Baxter s men against feisty Polokwane. But SuperSport showed mettle that any team who consider themselves worthy of contending for a league title require fighting back from Rodney Ramagalela s seventh-minute opener for City. The goal had come as a result of Matsatsantsa left-back Onismor Bhasera s stray pass in front of his own box. Being honest and I try to be honest and look at the game constructively I thought the first half obviously started disastrously with the mistake that we made for the goal Baxter said after the game. I mean Bash [Bhasera] it s very unlike him but you go 1-0 down after seven minutes. I think there was the lack of maturity in certain players and we panicked and then we didn t get our game back. And even when we threatened to get our game back it was just in short glimpses. The rest was just hard work. So the players got a little bit of a roasting at half time. And we had to change. We said we were going to press higher make City kick it long. And if they got out of that pressure we would drop and make them come onto us so we could hit them quickly. And when we had that type of game it didn t get great but it got better. Given that together with the fact that the players showed a lot of character and worked their socks off in the last 10 minutes where we just wanted to kill the game I think we just deserved to shade it. But not a good performance. I suppose cosmetically it places us at the top of the log. But that doesn t mean anything. I suppose the players can look at the television screen over Christmas and not be embarrassed. I m happy it means we ve had a good first half of the season. It s a sort of a receipt that you put in your picket and say thank you very much. But in reality it means nothing. I ve just said that to the players. Because if we finish fifth this means nothing. SuperSport have lost just one league game in 2016-17 1-0 in their opener against Platinum Stars away in August. They are level at the top on 25 points with second-placed Bidvest Wits though with a superior goal difference (+13 to the Clever Boys +6). Wits though have played 13 games to SuperSport s 14. - TMG Sport