Sithole was appointed in 2011 on a five-year contract which comes to an end this month.But TMG Digital learnt on Tuesday that Sithole was told to take leave before his contract runs out on December 31. Municipal spokeswoman Tozi Mthethwa said that she was not aware of the development but that she would make enquiries. However Sithole confirmed that he received a letter from Gumede on Monday. The letter did not talk about suspension per se but was requesting me to leave early as you know my contract expires on the 31st of December. I wrote back to the mayor advising her on the contrary. She s not the one to take such a decision as it is the competence of the council to do so. Council must appoint an acting manager. In fact I can appoint someone in the interim for a limited period as I m still the city manager. The mayor s letter has no legal basis he said. Sithole has applied for the city manager job with interviews yet to be conducted. DA eThekwini caucus leader Zwakele Mncwango told TMG Digital that he was contacted by his ANC counterpart on Tuesday morning confirming that Sithole was put on compulsory leave until the expiration of his contract. Like Sithole Mncwango said that Gumede was not authorised to ask Sithole to leave. He believed that Gumede had breached Section 5 of the Local Government: Municipal Systems Act which states that any misconduct allegation against a senior manager must be brought to council s attention for a decision. If there is any allegation the mayor must consult the speaker and call a special council meeting. Council is the only body that can take a decision on the city manager s future not one individual. She believes she is too powerful. She asked Sithole to take leave and he will get paid for the remaining days he said. He also questioned the timing of the decision so close to Sithole s last day and also her decision in light of Sithole being a candidate for the job. Why open doors for legal action for no reason? Sithole is an applicant. Already you have pre-judged the outcome of that panel. She is opening the door for a legal challenge. We have given her until 4pm tomorrow to reverse the decision and explain the rationale about it he said.- TMG Digital/Sunday Times