It seems that nation s people have so become accustomed to getting their whipped cream from the nozzle of an aerosol can a la Reddi Wip that a national shortage of the stuff is making headlines of the Whippocalypse kind.There s no shortage of cream mind you there s just a shortage of nitrous oxide the propellant used in aerosol cans as a result of an explosion at a plant in Florida in August. A whipped cream shortage is looming just in time for peak holiday pie was the Washington Post s headline. And a CBS affiliate in Miami went with Whipped Cream Shortage Could Leave Your Holiday Pies Bare ."It s hard to overstate how much the nation s holiday spirit will suffer as a result of the whipped cream shortage reported slate.com. Canned whipped cream is one of our greatest natural resources beloved by Americans of all stripes. Now whipped cream lies cruelly out of reach for those who didn t buy early or can t afford inflated prices said the slate.com writer clearly tongue-in-cheek. Our dessert landscape will be barren devoid of those sweet fluffy bursts of air-infused cream that so many of us have come to expect. And then she went on to suggest something clearly unthinkable in times of canned cream plenty: buy fresh whipping cream in the diary aisle and whip it yourself. If you pour the heavy cream into a bowl and whisk it for a few minutes it thickens to almost the consistency of canned whipped cream. You can add powdered sugar to make it sweet and vanilla or booze to give it flavour. Alternatively use an electric beater or even shake the cream in a jar until it thickens she added. I am well aware of the many drawbacks of these methods. You can t make them without dirtying some dishes. They take minutes rather than seconds to make. They require more than one ingredient. They don t come out of a can. Believe me I know. These whipped cream substitutes are nowhere near perfect. But during a natural disaster like our current whipped cream shortage sometimes you have to take what you can get. Meanwhile here on the southern tip of Africa our quest for convenience foods hasn t quite overtaken common sense so aerosol cream remains a very niche product.With 250g of fresh cream in a tub costing as little as R15 versus R55 for a 250g aerosol of whipped cream that s not too surprising. You d have to have a really strong aversion to whisking and washing to go for the can. - TMG Digital/ConsumerLIVE