His party the ANC and the KwaZulu-Natal department of co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) were among the first to extend their condolences. His loss is a tremendous blow to the ANC and society at large said Mdumiseni Ntuli the ANC's KZN spokesman. Ntuli said the 44-year-old represented the best of a cadreship to have emerged through the ranks of the ANC in the past 25 years. He was a brilliant student activist with great leadership qualities. It was therefore not surprising that he was elected the first Chairperson of the ANC Youth League in the Lower South Coast Region said Ntuli.Mnyayiza rose through the ranks and serve as regional secretary of the ANC for three consecutive terms.He was later elected as regional chairperson for the last two terms.Ntuli said his election unopposed at the last regional conference was testimony to his discipline dedication political integrity and constantly unifying role.The ANC credits Mnyayiza for building the organisation through difficult times of violence in the south coast.Ntuli said he elevated the party s status in society reached out to all societal groupings and ensured that the ANC would emerge as the undisputed and dominant political force after years of IFP rule in the region. Never a populist no one could challenge his record of revolutionary thought discipline and most importantly consistent action said Ntuli.Cogta MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube expressed her shock and sadness at the untimely death of Mnyayiza whom she described as a local government leaders with unmatched work ethic and a sheer determination to change people s lives for the better. We are simply heartbroken. Just when we were hoping and praying for his recovery God decided to take him away from us she said.Dube-Ncube said Mnyayiza was a leader on policy issues that shaped the political discourse in our province in many ways - from youth engagement to innovation to crime prevention. He also had a profound understanding of the direct and immediate impact that municipal government can have on our people and he made it a great priority to ensure that our government served the people and not the other way round."We will forever be grateful for Mayor Mnyayiza s wisdom guidance advice and continued dedication to the people of Ugu district. And though he has passed his legacy and spirit will be felt across the length and breadth of our province for generations to come .Mnyayiza graduated with a BA Degree and was busy with post-graduate studies at the time of his death. - TMG Digital/The Times