Two teams in form meet at Lucas Moripe Stadium with Nkhatha having said SuperSport want to end 2016 on a high and give their supporters a present ahead of the break for Christmas and then the Africa Cup of Nations which will only see the PSL resume in early February.However SuperSport are aware of the threat posed by City who lost their first match in six 3-2 against Kaizer Chiefs on Sunday at FNB Stadium. Polokwane City are in fantastic form Nkhatha said."There s a lot of teamwork in their squad that s why they are fighting and pushing their way up. This is not going to be an easy one."We are also prepared for this match and want to give our supporters a nice Christmas present. City coach Luc Eymael was not pleased at how his side fought back to 2-2 against Chiefs then conceded Willard Katsande s late winner.This after Polokwane had also missed a penalty taken by Rodney Ramagalela in the 23rd minute which was an opportunity that would have given the visitors a more comfortable lead going into the halftime break.Ramagalela put City 1-0 up seven minutes later. It was like against Pirates where they equalised in extra time Eymael said comparing the defeat against Chiefs to a 1-1 draw against Orlando Pirates on October 16 where Tendai Ndoro scored a 95th-minute equaliser. Our substitutions against Chiefs worked very well and we equalised directly."And unfortunately we made this big mistake in defence my defender who jumped over the ball like a woman. I'm very disappointed because we made a lot of effort in this game."We played certainly not bad at the beginning of the game. Our plan worked very well."We were winning 1-0 and had a chance to go to 2-0 but the penalty was terrible again."It was the third penalty we have missed this year. And after that you allow your opponents back into the game - if it was 2-0 I don't think Chiefs would have come back. I don't understand this lack of concentration there are so many points we have lost in matches in the dying minutes."The coach can do so much but you cannot make such mistakes. It s very sad for the club because we could have been position number three with a draw."But it s like that and we have to bounce back on Wednesday against SuperSport. Also on Wednesday an Ajax Cape Town (11th place) revitalised under the coaching of Stanley Menzo and who have won three games from their last four meet 10th-placed Chippa United at Cape Town Stadium. - TMG Digital