Komphela once again left Soccer City in the company of police and security personnel with incensed Chiefs fans in the stands baying for his blood after the ailing home side could only managed a 0-0 draw with visitors Bloemfontein Celtic on Wednesday night.The fans tried to force their way to the tunnel to get to Komphela at the end of the game with angry chants of Steve must go Steve must go echoing inside the 2010 World Cup venue.But a defiant Komphela said despite the ugly scenes that have accompanied Chiefs games with alarming regularity in the last few weeks he would not quit his job. Winners never quit and quitters never win said the Chiefs coach.Senior players Siphiwe Tshabalala and Itumeleng Khune among others went to the stands after the final whistle and tried to calm down the simmering tension inside the stadium.But the angry supporters patiently waited for Komphela while he conducted post match television interviews on the pitch and when he was finished they violently shook the crowd barriers and tried to get to him.Missiles rained down from the stands as the coach walked past and into the safety of the tunnel.Chiefs who are now sixth on the table have gone eight games without a victory and this means Komphela will be under considerable pressure to beat tricky Polokwane City in a league match that is to be played at the selfsame venue on Sunday afternoon.Komphela said while he acknowledges that the club is going through a very difficult period they have not won a game since beating Ajax Cape Town 2-0 in October and supporters who have become accustomed to success over the years are becoming increasingly patient with him it was not his place to try to communicate with them directly. I think I have to very careful in wanting to address supporters because it is something that is very delicate. The only response I could say in relation to the era we find ourselves in is that I plead that they keep supporting the players. The more they support the players then we can come out of this and we can get confidence then we can compete in the campaign because truly so (only 13 games have been played this season). The first round is not over but you cannot say that at Kaizer Chiefs. Here it is about winning and we accept that. So there can t be any message to them other than that they keep supporting the boys and we will keep trying our best to come out of this era and things will happen. But from my side no no no no I have no power and no right to make any request to the supporters. After hosting the fourth-placed City on Sunday Chiefs will travel to KwaZulu-Natal to face the equally tricky fifth-ranked Golden Arrows next Wednesday in their final match of the year. TMG Digital