But on 27 May 2016, we really needed extra popcorn.via GIPHYThis particular episode started when Zinhle's house was featured on Top Billing - the show that Bonang just happens to be a host on.In the footage, pictures of AKA and his mom are in her house.A few days later, Zinhle uploaded a snap of herself wearing a nonke shirt. You know, Euphonik went for Bonang with his 7 chapters. Ja. That.AKA had enough and he made his feeling more than clear with a series of tweets."Why are there pictures of myself and my mother in her house? And why does she make a point of showing it on TV? Where is HER mother? Why are there so many pictures of my mother on Instagram .... And none of her own mother? It's weird. Let go. Please," he tweeted.He was angry. Very angry.via GIPHY"I've tried to handle this in "private" for a year now .... But it's clear that they want to make a spectacle .... Well, here it is. Why the fuck should I protect the mother of my child when she is making a career out of shading me? So petty, can't even see Euphonik is using her. All for what? Some likes? Some "LOL"s ??? .... No man. I'm done being quiet."Zinhle replied"Everytime there's beef, U R the common denominator. Ever thought about the fact that if U didn't make enemies, we wouldn't hv 2 choose sides. I'm the mother of your child, you respect THAT!"And then AKA's mother responded"I have asked to meet Bonang on many occasions and that offer still stands I am still waiting. I love all my children and my granddaughter with my whole heart and that includes Zinhle. This is how it is and this is how it will be".via GIPHYTshisaLIVE understands that glammy used to live with Zinhle, but after this feud that changed.We've also been seeing more of glammy with her son. AKA even surprised her with a new car!What will next year bring? Well, since they've both moved on you'd hope for harmony. But Zinhle did recently tell Anele that she doesn't have contact with AKA, alluding to the fact that everything is done through intermediaries.via GIPHY