He has been on the run since August 28 said Correctional Services spokesperson Carla Williams.Williams confirmed that he was arrested on Thursday by police but would not say where he was being held for security reasons .Hendricks had been sentenced to 12 years in prison for among other things threatening former public protector Lawrence Mushwana in 2005.He was placed on parole in 2014 and his conditions stated that he may not change his residential address without prior notice and consent from correctional services. The offender eluded the department since 28 August 2016 and we were unable to monitor his movement as required while on parole. His whereabouts were unknown until his arrest said Williams. He now faces charges of absconding and a case was opened against him according to section 117 (e) of the Correctional Services Act. He is required to serve the remainder of his sentence which amounts to 325 days. Last week The Times reported that Plato who admitted that Hendricks was an informant for him was caught up in a bizarre row between Hendricks and Garden Route guest house owner Jacques de Bruyn.Plato denied Hendricks s claim that he was on official business for the MEC when he ran up a R87 000 bill during a two-month stay but failed to pay.Plato also said he had asked Hendricks to return a car belonging to De Bruyn s wife.De Bruyn said he laid charges against Hendricks who allegedly stole his wife's car.Plato a former Cape Town mayor confirmed that he met De Bruyn to discuss Hendricks' failure to pay his bill and refusal to return the car. He also promised De Bruyn that he would contact Hendricks and ask him to return the vehicle.When contacted Hendricks denied having the car.The guesthouse owner told The Times he had written off the money he was owed by Hendricks but said his wife wanted her car back and was still paying it off. Last month (De Bruyn' wife) sent Queenie a WhatsApp saying Queenie please do the right thing and bring the car back. You don t have to bring it here let's forget everything. Stop the car at the Pick n Pay and leave the keys at the till. I just want my car back. Then Queenie replied with Haha f*** you enjoy paying'. Hendricks was the whistle-blower about an alleged plot to kill former public protector Thuli Madonsela in May.TMG Digital/Cape Newsroom 