Writer Jacqui L Ange and operations manager David Bush are on an expedition with Cape Town endurance swimmer Lewis Pugh who is in the Antarctic to raise awareness of marine conservation.Pugh said on his blog: They claim they d been too busy to plan a wedding; all it took was some enthusiastic team and crew members to convince them that this was the perfect time and place. They were married on the shore of Neko Bay against a backdrop of calving glaciers. The vows read fifty metres up from the shore to ensure safety from glacial tsunamis acknowledged the humbling immensity of the place. Gentoo penguins were the only guests in formal black tie. The bride s snowflake-inspired veil was made out of paper from the Midnatsol ship s office; and the galley rustled up a wedding cake with two chocolate penguins on top. It was certainly the most memorable wedding I ve ever attended! Posting photographs on Facebook L Ange who is Pugh s expedition writer said: So David and I just got married in Antarctica at Neko Bay 64 50' South 62 35 West. And she paid tribute to the expedition team. The story behind the story is that this wouldn t have happened without some seriously enthusiastic expedition team members and the generosity and creative ingenuity of the Midnatsol crew. You are all awesome. Last year Pugh played a key role in an agreement to create the world s largest marine protected area and ban fishing in much of the Ross Sea a bay in the Southern Ocean.On Friday Pugh who has previously swum across the North Pole and in Himalayan glacial lakes took part in a practice swim among the icebergs circling a heart-shaped iceberg. Love was in the air today. It was another breathtaking still day as we arrived in Neko Bay so the team decided on a practice swim and photo session amongst the icebergs he said. By the time we returned to the ship my crew had turned into the cast of The Love Boat making plans for a wedding in Antarctica. (I m fairly sure Amundsen Shackleton and Scott never had to deal with this?) The fact that we came back with an image of a heart-shaped iceberg was entirely coincidental. Or maybe it was an auspicious sign. He added: I couldn t tell from the water that I had been swimming alongside a heart-shaped iceberg but the aerial photograph showed it clearly. The image perfectly captures the reason we are here: the love of this extraordinary place our message for the world to join together and protect the waters of Antarctica. L Ange writes books films TV series and investigative non-fiction with a focus on sustainable development and environmental issues. Her debut novel The Seed Thief was published in 2015 and long listed for the Sunday Times Fiction Award and the 2016 Etisalat Prize for Literature.Her friend fellow writer Helen Moffett said on Facebook: My day is made. My darling friend author and editor Jacqui L'Ange (never was someone more appropriately named) got married in a surprise ceremony to her fiance David Bush in Antarctica. Lewis Pugh (yes the bloke who swims in wild and impossible places to save the planet) and their shipmates organised it all. Penguins acted as ushers. It seems like the good fairy has touched a few spots of 2016 with her wand after all. Pugh is campaigning to secure more marine protected areas in the Antarctic to bring its total protected areas to nearly 7 million square kilometres roughly the size of Australia by 2020. This will coincide with the 200-year anniversary of the discovery of Antarctica by Russian explorer Admiral Bellingshausen he says on his blog.- TMG Digital/Sunday Times