While the current SABC board only has its chairman Mbulaheni Maguvhe as its sole member the Right to Know Campaign and the SOS Coalition want the board to be dissolved and a new board to be appointed in a transparent manner.However they are worried about the planned introduction of the Broadcasting Amendment Bill which has the potential of giving the power of appointing board members to the minister of communications.Right to Know Campaign coordinator Micah Reddy said the organisation had not thought about the names to steer the organisation into the new era. We don t have a list of names. What we want is an open transparent and democratic process where the public should nominate the board members. We want it to be open to the public Reddy said.Reddy said the recent appointment of Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane whereby there were calls for nominations from the public before a shortlist of candidates was interviewed by Parliament was a preferred way to appoint the board members. We don t want a situation where board appointments are determined by the minister Reddy said. The minister is trying to give herself more powers. If the Broadcast Amendment Bill goes through which we are opposing she will have those powers Reddy said.In its submission to Parliament s ad hoc committee on the SABC board inquiry on Wednesday the Right to Know Campaign said the board was captured by an untouchable employee of the SABC Hlaudi Motsoeneng and needed to be urgently dissolved.SOS Coalition coordinator Sekoetlane Phamodi said the proposed Bill sought to exclude parliament s role to make the recommendation to the president around the appointment of board members.Phamodi said it was well known that the politicisation of the board appointment process had been central to the instability in the SABC s successive boards over the past 10 years. Unfortunately now we see a minister who is seeking to seize power over the full management and governance of the SABC by seeking to vest herself as the appointing authority of the SABC s board and further to that setting up her own committee to run what is to be frank a bogus public participation process that is apparently independent around the appointment process. The Democratic Alliance's national spokesperson Phumzile Van Damme who also sits on the 11 member ad-hoc committee said the party had not yet decided on which names it would put forward."We do not have any specific person we would like to be on the board if the Ad Hoc committee decides to dissolve the board. If adverts are put out any person who fits the requirements as per the Broadcasting Act is welcome to apply and all will be considered objectively " Van Damme said."We will however push that all people selected to be on the board are truly independent from any political influence " she added.The African National Congress on the other hand said: "We can't make that call now. The inquiry is still under way and we don t know what the outcome will be " party spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said.Meanwhile on Wednesday Communications Minister Faith Muthambi testified before Parliament s ad hoc committee probing the SABC board s fitness to hold office.