Perhaps the only aspect about Downs Premier Soccer League send-off before they leave on Monday for the Fifa Club World Cup in Japan that might have been disappointing was that an inexperienced Stars rolled over a little easily in the second half.Afterwards Stars coach Giovanni Solinas admitted that his resource-challenged team who lost a number of their best players at the end of last season need bolstering to be competitive in the PSL.But a well organised fighting Stars held Sundowns to 1-1 by the break. The Brazilians had to step up the tempo and combinations to overwhelm Ea Lla Koto in the second half.Downs coach Pitso Mosimane had said in recent weeks that Tau has now firmly put himself up as a fourth dimension to the CBD. That was confirmed with another storming performance by the 21-year-old yesterday in a match that also saw the Leonardo Castro-Khama Billiat-Keagan Dolly combination fielded for the first time in a starting line-up since July.And the CBD were on song too. This game was a little bit difficult for both teams. It was too hot 32 degrees Celsius for both teams and on a big pitch Mosimane said. But we played a very organised team. We can see the coach is very good. They didn t give us opportunities to go in easily. We had to hustle with a lot of combination play. You have to credit the goal that Keagan scored it was one of the beautiful goals. I think you saw a lot of beautiful goals Percy s also. I liked the header because he hung there and waited for it. For his height it s unbelievable. Also the second one he scored was just amazing. Percy is just a new gold mine we have just found and you still have to mine and mine it. I think he s still at 60 percent and the best is yet to come. It s good to have the CBD back on the pitch. The guys in the change room have been giving them a hard time and coming up with other names. But they said Ja give us some time and one match and we ll be back . And they responded well today. It was beautiful to see Khama scoring Leo giving all the balls and Keagan. But Percy always emerges there and that s good. For Downs first-half opener Billiat put Castro making his first start since his return from an ankle injury through who then squared back to Billiat to score.For their second Billiat s backheel put Tebogo Langerman free for the cross that Tau scored from with a hanging header.Dolly played two one-twos with Billiat then Castro before slamming in Downs third in a classic CBD goal. Tau s fourth was a solo effort down the left.Saturday s front-line of Castro at centre-forward in front of Tau at deep striker with Billiat on the right and Dolly on the left could give any team in the world problems.That is exactly what Sundowns will need against international superstars including those of Real Madrid if they want to make an impact as South Africa s first club competing at a Club World Cup.TMG Digital/TMG Sport 