That's according to the Paramount Group, who proudly shared the certificate with Times LIVE. Two-year-old Arrow made his maiden jump with handler Henry Holsthyzen of Paramount Group s Anti-Poaching and K9 Academy based in Rustenburg the company said in a statement on Monday. The jump was executed at the Waterkloof Airforce Base on the outskirts of Pretoria.Arrow was specially selected as a puppy for his temperament and trained to descend from a helicopter by rope strapped to Holsthyzen and finally to skydive.He is one of nearly 200 other specially bred and trained K9s at the Anti-Poaching and Canine Training Academy run by Paramount Group a defence and aerospace company. The programme has gained international exposure with reports on Lonely Planet and the BBC (The BBC report http://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-37535873).Arrow's skydiving expertise hinges on his close relationship with his handler. Since Arrow was a puppy the two have eaten slept and worked together in order to develop the inseparable bond needed to carry out high-pressure anti-poaching tasks together.Holsthyzen said: With my knowledge of Arrow - knowing him and knowing his personality - it gave me a very good idea of what to expect and he acted accordingly. He s a natural born skydiver and an adrenaline junkie - I was more scared than he was! I jumped out of the helicopter and it was just natural for him to follow me. I rely on him and in turn he relies on me. I m willing to go into battle with him because I trust him. Trust forms the basis of our relationship and that enables the handler and the K9 relationship to excel. The Paramount Anti-Poaching and K9 Academy is supported by the Ichikowitz Family Foundation and Paramount Group.Eric Ichikowitz director of the foundation commented: In some cases we have to insert the canine into a difficult situation with the poachers or a challenging environment such as a forest or mountainous regions. The parachute helps engage them quietly . ... The training protocols have been developed through experience gained in operational environments working in close conjunction with a number of National Parks special operations units. The Canine Academy specialises in breeding working Belgian Shepherd dogs (Malinois) and German Shepherd dogs for anti-poaching military and police. The school also has working Rottweilers and Bloodhounds.