Wearing shades and smiles the healthy and cheerful looking Economic Freedom Fighter shows off his slim frame by effortlessly carrying his wife on his shoulders.The photo caption shows them at the upmarket and secluded Glenshiel Hotel in the Magoebaskloof mountains.Mantwa is rocking her post-baby body too if the October reports that they have welcomed their first child together are correct. A photo posted by Juliusmalemasello (@julius.malema.sello) on Dec 21, 2016 at 7:53am PSTA photo posted by Juliusmalemasello (@julius.malema.sello) on Dec 21, 2016 at 7:53am PSTThe photographs were greeted with pleasure by his supporters describing them as "best couple ever". One social media user demonstrated her sense of humour saying she would like to copy their pose with her man except for her body being so "healthy".We play together pic.twitter.com/iQMWWdwsBf Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) December 21, 2016We play together pic.twitter.com/iQMWWdwsBf On October 21 Malema let the cat out of the bag about a baby when he posted a picture of him and Mantwa a caption that read: Mma Munzhedzi re a leboga Modimo le Badimo ba leboloke which loosely translated is Munzhedzi s mother we thank you May god and the gods protect you . TMG Digital understands that Munzhedzi a Venda name which means a self-starter or leader is the name given to the child.That same month Malema appeared on Real Talk with Anele Mdoda to speak about his enjoyment of married life."I used to drink and go to clubs...."She completes me. She's able to speak a lot of sense and persuade me to see certain things different and get me to do things I haven't done. And watching Perfect Wedding (Our Perfect Wedding). Things I used to think were girly things... I enjoy them."Malema also shared that his wife isn't afraid to call him out when he does things wrong.Anele asked him whose call he will always take no matter what."My wife's number. Even if I put 'do not disturb' on the phone. I put her on 'favourites' so she can come through. There will be trouble at home. At home it must be peaceful. I can't be fighting with Zuma and there's another Zuma in the house."The first couple of the EFF tied the knot in December 2014 at a luxurious private ceremony in Malema s home town of Seshego.Malema also has a son Ratanang born from a relationship with Maropeng Ramohlale. He told Anele that Mantwa came into his life full time "when my boy was almost 8". 