Senatla, the 2015/16 World Player of the Year, picked up where he left off in earlier this year by scoring two tries in SA s 46-0 opening win over Dubai newcomers Uganda.A little later Senatla added another brace against Scotland as the Blitzboks won 21-5 to settle their nerves after trailing 5-0 at halftime. And he added another two tries one either side of halftime as the Blitzboks edged the USA 19-17 in their final match of the day.Victory ensured that the Blitzboks topped Pool B and they will now face New Zealand, who came second in Pool C, in Saturday s Cup quarterfinal. We weren t happy with ourselves in the final match against the USA, Senatla said. But that s sevens rugby you re up and you re down. We re stoked to be top of the Pool, which was the first goal. Senatla, who will play in Dubai and next week s second leg in Cape Town before taking a break from sevens to concentrate on his fifteens career with the Stormers in the new year, took his career try tally to 163.Senatla is now only 16 tries shy of Fabian Juries all time try-scoring record of 179. Another good day on Saturday and a good weekend at the Cape Town Stadium next week could see the flyer come close to matching, and even breaking, that record.Neil Powell s team were rampant against Uganda, scoring eight tries with captain Philip Snyman also adding a brace to set a good tone for the four-time Dubai winners.Scotland, who beat the Blitzboks in last year s final of the London leg, again proved tricky opponents before wilting under a second half fightback by SA.Some early ill-discipline at the beginning of the second half cost the Scots dearly though. Both Senatla and Specman scored tries with the opponents a man down. I am pretty pleased with the way we finished against Scotland, Powell said. We showed some real grit and finished strong. To be sure of topping Pool B victory over the USA, who beat SA in the Dubai quarterfinals last year, was essential.Veteran Cecil Afrika opened the scoring after just 29 seconds against the USA. Former captain Kyle Brown won the kick-off and made good yardage before freeing Afrika on a piercing angled run.Senatla increased the lead with this fifth strike of the day soon after and even though USA speedster Perry Baker pulled a try back before halftime, the damage was done.Senatla scored his second after some sloppy USA exit play to stretch the lead to 12 points, which was enough to see the Blitzboks over the line. I cannot fault the guys on the way they worked back when our line was breached, but that happened too many times. We need to fix that if we want to be successful tomorrow, Powell said.The quarterfinal line-up is:11h00: Fiji v France11h22: England v Scotland11h44: Australia v Wales12h06: South Africa v New Zealand - TMG Digital/ TMG Sport