To recap, Ngcungama made a R1538 lay-by purchase at Clothing Junction's Port Shepstone branch at the end of November, paying an initial R538 and agreeing to pay off the remainder by the end of January.With lay-by purchases, the goods remain in the store until payment is made in full. But the Consumer Protection Act allows the customer to cancel at any time for a refund of what they have paid, minus a cancellation fee of just 1% of the purchase price - in this case, R15.38.But when Ngcungama wanted to cancel that lay-by two weeks ago, her request was denied.So I contacted the company s head office on her behalf. As a result, Ngcungama was immediately promised a refund and all Clothing Junction branches have been e-mailed regarding the correct lay-by procedures. I went to the store, they apologised and refunded my full amount, she told me. I'm over the moon! Thank you so much for your help. Meanwhile, Emmanuel Kaphokoto was having a similar problem with the Adidas-Market store in Jo burg CBD s Small Street.He paid R500 as an initial payment on a R1699 pair of shoes on November 30. But when he tried to cancel the deal - after his girlfriend surprised him with a pair of sneakers - he was told that wasn t possible; he had to pay the full amount.His receipt states: No exchange on lay-bys . I only got to know the law about the 1% cancellation fee when I read your column - I had given up by then, he said this week.When I called the store, an assistant referred me to regional manager Bernice Myburgh.She began by saying Kaphokoto could cancel the lay-by and use the R500 he paid in November towards another pair of shoes in the store.I then asked Myburgh if she knew what the Consumer Protection Act said about lay-by deals. Yes, she said, refusing to comment on why the company s policy wasn t complaint with the CPA.Asked if she intended to see to it that the company s lay-by policy was changed, she said she was not willing to debate the issue. Just tell him to go back to the store for his refund, she said.That s what Kaphokoto did earlier this week. I told him he was due his R500 minus R16,99 (1% of R1699) as a cancellation fee.It went better than he expected. It was unbelievable, he said. I got to the shop, and before I said anything they asked for the receipt and refunded me in full. But sometimes, in fairness, it s the consumer who gets it wrong. Fumane sought my help this week in getting a Centurion store to take back a jumpsuit she d already paid for in full, via lay-by. I paid a deposit for it in October and settled the balance last month. But when I got home I tried on the jumpsuit, only to realise it no longer fits me properly as I have gained a bit of weight. I went back to the store to return it, and I was told they can't refund me; they ll give me a credit note instead. But I explained to them I don't want a credit note, I want a refund and that their refusal is illegal according to the Credit Act. Your response will be highly appreciated. I explained that The National Credit Act does not apply, and nor does the Consumer Protection Act - the CPA only gives consumers the right to return goods if they are DEFECTIVE. If goods are not defective, as in your case, they don t have to take them back at all, so them offering you a credit note is actually a favour. THE ADVICE *The upside of a lay-by - as a form of buying something you cant afford to pay for in full, upfront - is you don t need a good credit record, and you don t pay any interest or other costs, but the downside is there s no instant gratification as with swiping a credit card. You only take ownership of the goods when you have paid for them in full. So make sure you still want what you ve put on lay-by before you made that final payment, because you can cancel any time until then, for a full refund of all payments you ve made, minus just 1% as a cancellation penalty.It s a great deal for consumers, provided the retailer honours the provisions of the CPA.