The Downs coach is also hoping his players have adjusted better now to the toll taken by jetlag for the playoff at Osaka s Suita City Football Stadium where Downs lost 2-0 against Japan s host club Kashima Antlers in Sunday s quarterfinal.Mosimane had said a lack of time to overcome jetlag had affected Sundowns in that defeat though he played down its role.He said he would put out a full-strength line-up despite some players like Keagan Dolly and Hlompo Kekana having appeared to show the affects of the crossing of time zones at the end of a gruelling schedule for Downs. The African champions have not had a break in football for 15 months. You know me from South Africa I don t like to change the players at all. We ll see how the players respond today in the last session also Mosimane said at Thursday's pre-match press conference. I don't like to make wholesale changes because we lost the match. I need to say why we lost the match. And I know why we did it s because we didn t take the chances. I told the boys that we didn t lose because they didn t play well. So we ve tried to work a little bit on finishing in training even though we don t want to overload the players. This trip for us has been very heavy because of the adjustment to the time zones. And hopefully the players have had time to adjust. That should not be an excuse. We will compete and do what we have to do. But to be emotional and change the team I don t think I m in that space. A fifth-place playoff might normally be considered something of a wooden spoon game. But with Downs determined not to go home from their - and Southern Africa s - first appearance at the tournament without a win and Jeonduk saying they are also set on winning their last official match of 2016 this will be a hotly-contested game.There is also the matter of pride between the Asian and African champions. After all this game used to be contested as the now defunct Afro-Asian Club Championship a precursor to the formation of the Club World Cup in 2000.* Marc Strydom is in Japan as a guest of Mamelodi SundownsTMG Digital/TMG Sport