After nine months of extensive rehabilitation at a hospital in Johannesburg after a bacterial infection that resulted in his limbs having to be amputated he is thrilled to be going home to spend the festive season with his family in Sasolburg.He suffered a life-threatening sepsis complication after contracting a meningococcus bacterial infection. Both of his legs were amputated below the knees as were his left hand and all of the fingers on his right hand.Now after initially being treated at the paediatric intensive care unit at Netcare Garden City Hospital followed by months of intensive therapy at Netcare Rehabilitation Hospital he is fully mobile.He's been equipped with custom-made prosthetic limbs and a "bionic" myoelectric hand to perform tasks such as tying shoelaces or typing on a computer according to a statement by the rehabilitation hospital. Do you know that I can take care of myself and don t need the help of the nurses anymore? I can also put my legs on by myself he said Owethu. I am tired; we went for a long walk this morning he added. Dr Veronica Wilson who was responsible for his overall care at the rehabilitation hospital said: "Owethu is the longest-staying paediatric patient we have ever cared for. He is a truly remarkable boy; a real survivor who thanks to his tenacity and bravery as well as committed support by his parents and appropriate medical care and rehabilitation has succeeded in overcoming massive physical as well as emotional trauma. Seeing him today you would never believe that Owethu had undergone such a harrowing journey this past year. He has unbelievable vigour and spirit and has been an inspiration to the doctors and staff at the hospital. We will all miss his wonderful energy " she said.The meningococcus infection he contracted at the beginning of 2016 caused blood clots to shoot into his smaller blood vessels effectively causing his extremities to become necrotic - to start dying. It was a life-threatening situation and Owethu was admitted to Netcare Garden City Hospital under the care of paediatric intensivist Dr Myles Bartlett who managed to stabilise him. Plastic surgeon Dr Ridwan Mia performed the amputations at the hospital as well as a number of procedures thereafter to facilitate healing and enable the fitting of prosthetic limbs " said Wilson.The child was distraught after the amputations asking what had happened to his bandaged hands and legs.Once his wounds healed months of intensive physical rehabilitation followed along with play therapy to help him deal with his reintegration into community life.Heinrich Grimsehl an orthotist prosthetist who practises at the rehabilitation hospital said that Owethu s high-tech myoelectric hand uses sensors to detect electrical signals generated naturally by his own muscles that controlled his hand before amputation. The myoelectric hand is designed to mimic human anatomy and motion and is covered by a natural looking glove. The battery for the myoelectric hand only arrived recently and we will be working with Owethu to get him completely adept at using it early in the new year. He will then be able to use it in his daily activities. However he has practised with the hand extensively using a computer and quickly became familiar with it said Grimsehl.Owethu s father Lazarus Chibure said the amputations and long recovery were a difficult time for the family but they are greatly looking forward" to his return home.Mia who practises at Netcare Garden City Hospital said: "We need to spread awareness of meningococcus infection in South Africa as it can be a most dangerous even fatal infection for our children in particular. It is a bacterium that can cause a variety of disease including meningitis or as in Owethu s case meningococcemia which is a life-threatening sepsis. This is tragic particularly as there is a vaccine available against the infection. TMG Digital