Mkhize is a likely starter for City in their cup decider against SuperSport United at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane having slotted into the backline with ease since his arrival on a free transfer two months ago.The 28-year-old had to come to terms with his contract being cancelled by Pirates before he had even kicked a ball this season.Having moved from Maritzburg United at the end of the last campaign he was not in the plans of then coach Muhsin Ertugral.What followed was a painful wait on the sidelines until the opportunity came for a trial at City.After being signed and making his debut against Bloemfontein Celtic on October 19 Mkhize has played every minute for City since. It was tough sitting at home with no team but I m just grateful to Cape Town City the management and the coach [Eric Tinkler] for giving me the opportunity to come here Mkhize said. I believe with the move that didn t happen for me to go to Pirates it just wasn t meant to be. I am just grateful that I got an opportunity to come to Cape Town City. The way my teammates accepted me when I first came here it was like I am part of the family already. Mkhize has only known success in a City short so far the club has won eight and drawn one of the nine games he has played.And he can certainly take some of the credit his performances in the right-back position have been noteworthy. Going nine games without a loss is a motivation and keeps us going. We will keep on working hard and pushing each other. While SuperSport might be expected to come out on top given their greater experience both on the pitch and in the dug-out Mkhize says there is a steely determination in the City ranks to claim the trophy. I wouldn t say we have to prove a point but obviously as a player in the PSL you want to make history."We want to win this cup for Cape Town City. We have to push to win the title. Durban-born Mkhize made his PSL debut for Lamontville Golden Arrows in the 2010/11 season and played for three seasons with his hometown club.He signed for Maritzburg after the 2012/13 campaign and was an instant hit.Mkhize turned down a new contract at United in favour of a move to Pirates before being left in the lurch by the club s u-turn in July. - TMG Digital