Mosimane was speaking after Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula had given Downs a rousing send-off after their final training session at their Chloorkop base on Tuesday before flying out on Wednesday night for Alexandria Egypt.Downs coach said the Brazilians confidence is high of their chances of protecting their 3-0 lead gained in an excellent first leg performance on Saturday at Lucas Moripe Stadium.Mosimane said his squad have revelled in having a rare full week s training ahead of the second leg at Borg El Arab Stadium. This is a good week for us. This is a brilliant week. Five days [to prepare] before the match the coach enthused. We don t have that we have three days all the time. We even gave the players off on Monday to get the body back because we re not used to this. We trained normally. Wednesday was the last day of my tactical sessions it s done.Mosimane said that analysing Zamalek had been done. "We ve packaged all Zamalek s home games against Wydad Casablanca [in the semifinals] against us to see their mentality characteristics and the behaviour of their play at home. And then we ll have one session in Alexandria on Friday just to try and sharpen saw. We ve checked the referees to see how they deal with pressure. I m not talking about cheating. We realise that some of the fouls the referees will deal with differently in Egypt. At Lucas Moripe the crowd played a very big part. And in Egypt it will play a very big part. There have been messages sent via social media to all the players - whoever has got an Instagram Facebook or Twitter account all of them. They have received death threats. But you know those things are OK. It s mind games. The match is XI against XI on the pitch. The players have laughed about it. I said OK that's good. Because if they don t talk about it maybe it could affect them . But they understand that there will be lasers in Egypt. I told them We ve been there with Bafana there were lasers [and] nothing happened. So let s go and play. Mosimane coached Bafana Bafana to a 0-0 draw against Egypt in Cairo in an Africa Cup of Nations qualifier in 2011. Sundowns will not know for sure what kind of reception they will receive at the 86 000-seater modern Borg El Arab Stadium on Sunday night (kickoff: 8.30 pm SA time).The attendance has been officially limited to 20 000 due to the tense political situation in Egypt. However with Zamalek in a desperate position the country s authorities might relent and allow in a bigger crowd.Fans of Egyptian giants Zamalek and Al Ahly are among the most passionate in world football capable of creating a hostile atmosphere complete with the North African trend of utilising lasers to try to distract opposition players.TMG Digital/TMG Sport