Two councillors - mayoral committee member Rano Kayser (DA) and Rosie Daaminds (ANC) - were injured in a brawl in which water glasses and jugs were hurled inside the council chamber. At least one shot was fired.The violence erupted moments before mayor Athol Trollip and his team were to announce the appointment of Vuyo Mlokoti as municipal manager. Mlokoti is a former official of the City of Johannesburg and a former manager of Amathole district municipality.Trollip said: "I believe that the shot or shots were fired by security men who were called in."He said the fight stemmed from an item on the agenda about the conduct of an ANC councillor at a recent meeting in New Brighton.Two ANC councillors were said to have been asked to leave the chamber after they refused to comply with a call to come to order."ANC councillors Makhi Feni and Andile Lungisa approached the Speaker's bench, which is sacrosanct, with the view, in my opinion, to assault the Speaker," Trollip said. A fight ensued, with people "hurling glasses and jugs at full force"."DA councillor Rano Kayser is in hospital. One councillor from the ANC, Rosie Daaminds, collapsed. I saw blood on her face," Trollip said."There are glass shards everywhere. That behaviour cannot be expected in a constitutional democracy. The fact that we can't have glasses and glass jugs in the council chamber is an indictment of us."The mayor rubbished reports that the shots had been fired by chief whip Werner Senekal."We do not bring firearms to council. One ANC councillor was seen carrying a knife," he said."Senekal was stabbed in the back with a sharp object [a pen]."We will have to step up security, unfortunately."ANC caucus leader Bicks Ndoni said the DA was responsible for the confrontation."The Speaker refused us [the opportunity] to engage in a simple matter. They were hellbent on disciplining a councillor, saying he was unruly at a meeting."If they had just allowed a debate on the issue, that chaos would not have happened."In no time, councillors were shouting at each other and glasses started flying."Shots were fired. I cannot recall how many. Some councillors went under the tables," Ndoni said.He said he could not say who started throwing the jugs and tumblers."We will wait for the police investigation," Ndoni said.Tshwane metro police used stun grenades to disperse the union members, who wanted to gatecrash the council meeting .The metro police have tightened security since yesterday morning, demanding that councillors produce proof of identity before being allowed into the council building.The council's last meeting was also marred by protest.At that meeting protesters were able to reach the door of the council chamber. The glass door was shattered as the angry mob tried to force its way in.