Zuma who was answering question at the National Council of Provinces a thorough investigation had been conducted into the matter. "The executive which does more movement has done research on this. The [current] cost is huge if for example you look at the fact that an executive member has to have two houses and two cars because we have two capitals " Zuma said. "But if we were staying in one place we will have one car and one house." One seat of government would also save on travel costs and time the president said.He said the matter had been "very scientifically investigated and there is one conclusion: that we need one seat of government". However added Zuma "I want to emphasise first and foremost that the decision to relocate Parliament from Cape Town to Pretoria lies squarely within the ambit of Parliament. It is not a matter for the executive to decide upon". "We have however expressed our views on the matter given the advantages we think will accrue to the fiscus." Zuma said various departments have been allocated responsibilities to interrogate the matter further. "In preparations for engagement with Parliament the Department of Public Works was tasked by cabinet to further investigate the merits of relocation."An interdepartmental task team comprising government departments that contribute to the optimal functioning of Parliament was also constituted."He said the task team comprises several departments each with specific tasks. "The National Treasury is looking at financial and budgetary implications. The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development is focusing on the legislative requirements and processes. "The Department of Public Service and Administration is looking into the administrative and human capital implications. The Department of Transport looks at the logistics and transport implications. "The South African Police Service is looking into the security and safety implications while the Department of Labour is investigating the human resource implications."Importantly the Department of Public Works as a custodian of public infrastructure and an accommodation service department to Parliament is also engaging with Parliament on a review of previous needs analysis and the space audits conducted in 2006/2007." Also being looked at said Zuma were the needs of Parliament including the space requirements for residential accommodation for MPs parliamentary office bearers and leaders as well as administrative support staff. "The preliminary analysis continues to point to the same conclusions derived from previous studies in 1995 1997 and 2011. These indicated that in the long term the cost to relocate the legislative authority from Cape Town to Pretoria will be significantly less than maintaining the status quo. "The negative impact includes the potential loss of income for the City of Cape Town and potential job losses in the finance and business sectors providing services to Parliament."There are also indications that should the relocation to Pretoria be given effect a significant portion of the redundant State-owned accommodation serving the Parliamentary function could be appropriated by accommodating various other Government departments."- TMG Digital