Springbok coach Allister Coetzee took that step on Thursday by strengthening his management squad for the November tour to Britain and Italy. Golden Lions defence specialist JP Ferreira along with Free State Cheetahs head coach Franco Smith will join the Boks for their four-match tour.Kicking coach Louis Koen has also been added and he will step into the the role he fulfilled under Heyneke Meyer for four years. The Boks play the Barbarians and three Tests against England Italy and Wales and desperately need to turn their season around after four wins in nine Tests. Defence has been one problem but so has attack.Against the All Blacks alone the Boks conceded 15 tries in two matches while only scoring one.They have conceded 27 tries in nine matches and only touched down 15 times. Chean Roux who was brought in at short notice as defence coach for the Rugby Championship has been relieved of his duties. Smith will work on attack and will provide a mentorship role to the inexperienced Mzwandile Stick who has struggled at this level. Ferreira s appointment is an interesting one.The Lions who made the 2016 Super Rugby final conceded 51 tries in 18 matches this year or nearly three per match.Their defence was hardly watertight. The champion Hurricanes conceded 37 (in 18 games) and semi-finalists the Highlanders (17 matches) a mere 33.The Stormers under defence coach Paul Treu conceded 36 in 16 games which included eight by the Chiefs in their one play-off match. The Lions did have to play against New Zealand teams though while the Stormers only had Aussie opposition.The Sharks who also played against NZ teams and only conceded 30 tries in 15 matches are the best comparison.But their defence coach Omar Mouneimne took up a contract with Stade Francais. There have been a number of meetings with the Springbok coach following the Rugby Championship SA Rugby CEO Jurie Roux said. His request was that he needed more expertise in certain areas. We have added to the management s strength for this tour and the situation will be reassessed by the Springbok coach at the conclusion of the season. I d like to thank the Cheetahs and Lions for their whole-hearted support of our request which shows the spirit of collaboration that has been highlighted by the indaba said Roux. Coetzee said: Both Franco and JP are experienced coaches at Super Rugby and Currie Cup level."They are both hardworking and well-respected individuals. They will fit in well with the current management and I am convinced that they will add value. Ferreira has been on the Golden Lions coaching staff for nine years while Smith has just guided the Free State Cheetahs to the Currie Cup final. We support SA Rugby s decision to appoint JP (Ferreira) for the end of year tour as we believe that he can add value."He has been a stalwart for the union for the last nine years through some tough times said Rudolf Straeuli the CEO of the Golden Lions. Ferreira was overwhelmed with the opportunity that came his way. I am nervous and excited at the same time. It is like a dream come true to work with the Springboks even if it is only for four weeks " he said. As a young boy my dream was to become a Springbok. It did not happen as a player but I kept my dream alive by deciding to become a coach."Over the past nine years at the Lions I have had the opportunity to work with dedicated and passionate coaches such as Eugene Eloff Jake White Dick Muir John Mitchell and Johan Ackermann all of whom taught me the knowledge skills and values I apply to my own coaching philosophy. Thanks to Johan who had the confidence to appoint me as a defence coach."I would also like to thank the Lions for affording me the opportunity. I am both humbled and grateful. - TMG Digital