Kaizer Chiefs might have shaded the play but Orlando Pirates had the clearer chances to kill the game off was how Bucs coach Muhsin Ertugral appraised his team s performance in the 0-0 Premier Soccer League Soweto derby draw at FNB Stadium on Saturday.Ertugral felt that Chiefs were mostly allowed to play in the areas that Bucs were comfortable with.Perhaps justifiably he believed that while his side had less of the ball two chances in either half to Thabo Rakhale in the first and Gift Motupa in the second with just Chiefs goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune to beat could have killed the game for Bucs. We observed Chiefs patterns and for us it was very important to keep them in front of us. We knew we could contain them if we closed certain areas Ertugral said. And I thought we had them. With the first chance from Thabo Rakhale we had done this movement a thousand times. And I think he should have been a bit more patient and he could have lifted the ball over the goalkeeper and that was the goal. In the second half yes Chiefs had the ball. It might have looked like somebody who was punching. But in the end we I think tactically and organisationally had three or four chances that should have been a knockout. Especially the chance by Gift Motupa. At half time we spoke about where the areas are. He did a fantastic run into that area he just needed to relax but he kicked the ball over. That was game over. But I think we can all be very happy for the type of football that was dished out. I personally would have been very happy with the three points. But we must be happy with the point and with the way our team played. Ertugral had said in the past few weeks he believed Pirates new right-back from Ajax Cape Town Abbubaker Mobara had played too much football.Explaining the player s absence from the derby Ertugral said: With Mobara we have the GPS [chip tracking] system where we see what the players do during the week how many kilometres how many sprints. And we have a scientist around us every day. And we spoke about that because I had the feeling that the boy was overplayed. We had a meeting about it and I told the coaches we need to take him out. And exactly on that day he got injured. It s a muscle strain and we need to see how long it will take. He wanted to play on Saturday but in the end we didn t want to risk him. TMG Digital/TMG Sport