Senatla has been one of the standout players in the SA Sevens team and has been widely regarded as one of the best Sevens stars on the international circuit and a good year on the field was capped when the 23-year-old was named the SA Sevens player of the year at the SA rugby awards on Monday night.Not only was he instrumental in the Blitzboks Sevens World Series campaign where he scored a flurry of tries he was also influential in the side s journey to an Olympic bronze medal in Rio de Janeiro earlier this year. It s a combination of the whole season [that has made the campaign a success] Senatla said. The whole season has been a standout because it was a different season it being an Olympic year getting the 15s guys to play Sevens getting to know the guys better the culture."All of that has made it a magical season and more memorable because it was something different it is one that will be in our hearts forever. Senatla who also plays Super Rugby for the Stormers will be playing just four of the 10 international Sevens series events.The series begins with the Dubai leg that will be followed by a home leg in Cape Town.This will be done so as to allow the speedy player time to play as much Super Rugby as possible next year. I m not sure how the coach (Neil Powell) is going to structure it he will choose which ones I will play in and are most important for him."I believe I might play the first four because that then opens up the Super Rugby season for me Senatla said.The flier expressed his desire to go on to represent the Springboks at test level with the hope of making the same impact in the green and gold as he had in the Sevens circuit. Defintely! I think as a kid growing up you want that 15 s jersey that is the ultimate team at the end of the day he said. I will be gunning for that hence I made the move to play a bit more of 15s. The focus shifts now from Sevens primarily to 15s and Sevens will be secondary. I believe that Sevens remains a huge factor in my game as it develops me so much. I will focus on the 15s and try to don the jersey. Hopefully not just don it but be a legend in the jersey. Senatla also has the blessings and support of his Sevens coach in his pursuit of success in the 15-man game. I know that he (Powell) wants me to focus on 15s. He tells me that son give it a go . He is also a father-figure not just a coach. He always has our best interests at heart. - TMG Digital