But the Orlando Pirates coach said he believes that goalkeeper Brighton Mhlongo s form serves as an example of how players can also benefit from criticism.Struggling to explain Pirates patchy start to the season that has seen them unconvincingly draw their last three games Ertugral said he has had the impression some of Bucs stars are yet to adjust to his disciplinarian regime and critical manner. I think sometimes they are. We are all human we always want to be admired and recognised Ertugral said this week ahead of his side s Telkom Knockout first round fixture against Lamontville Golden Arrows on Sunday at Orlando Stadium. But unfortunately football is not a democracy. This is a multi-million dollar business. I know that when the team wins it s everybody and when they lose it s the coach. Obviously in the 92nd minute [in Pirates 1-1 draw against Platinum Stars on Sunday September 27] I told them not to concede that goal from a corner. And we have certain structures and organisational forms and everyone knows where to be in every build-up and every section of play. And obviously we criticise as much as we as coaches need to be criticised. You need constructive criticism. Ertugral said he believes some early criticism of Mhlongo has led to Pirates goalkeeper being in form between the posts keeping Pirates in recent games notably on Sunday at Peter Mokaba Stadium against City who at times alarmingly penetrated Bucs defence.The coach hinted he left club stalwart Mhlongo in the stands at the beginning of the season surprisingly preferring Felipe Ovono for Bucs first two games to convey a message that no-one is guaranteed a place. I think to some extent the criticism has brought Brighton to where he is at the moment Ertugral said. In the end I think I was right to take him out for a bit. There are some people who need to be criticised. Now suddenly because of this [criticism] he s there in how he is playing. And that shows that maybe two games helped him a bit to be outside. So there are all elements. A football team is a dynamic living organism. At the moment we have 33 own companies [Bucs players] in there. Now you need to bring these companies together. And that s where the biggest problem is. And when you look to the psychological aspect of where we all come from how many years of youth development are being taught? So now I the one from Europe comes and says the body needs to be open there it needs to be closed there and one player has to move here and the other needs to move at that angle. So it s sometimes a bit . But we expect that and the fans expect it. They re paying a lot of money to come. I saw that the last week how many people came to the stadium. And when we stopped at the garage the love that they showed us was just amazing. And we want to see them smiling that s what we re all for. But it will come. At Kaizer Chiefs it took me at least six months. I remember that they wanted to hang me from the highest pole. And then we had fantastic success. It was the same at Ajax Cape Town Sivasspor all the teams I coached. - TMG Digital