That will no doubt happen during and after their day/night tour match against a Cricket Australia XI at Adelaide Oval on Saturday and Sunday.But all JP Duminy has to go on for now is what he has seen at training. We have had one twilight training session so far which was very different Duminy told reporters in Adelaide before Friday s practice session. It s definitely something we ve still got to get used to. Tonight s training session is a step in the right direction in terms of adapting to those conditions and then we ll just take it as it comes. It s the light difference and the pink ball adapting to that difference in colour. That is going to take a few sessions of training. It hasn t been too big a difference but there is a difference in adapting to it. Squad members Stephen Cook Dean Elgar Temba Bavuma Dane Vilas and Vernon Philander played a day/night first-class match on SA A s tour to Australia in July and August and SA will have another day/nighter in Melbourne on November 19 and 20.Then it s back to Adelaide for the potentially series-deciding third Test on November 24 - SA s first day/night match in the format.Observers would be forgiven for wondering whether the fuss over all that could take the visitors eye off the more immediate task of the first Test which starts at the WACA on November 3.But it seems they have a plan for staying out of that kind of trouble. We are concentrating on staying in our bubble Duminy said. We ve got 10 to 14 days of training leading up to that first Test and we are looking to concentrate on our preparations. There might be a lot of banter being thrown around in the media but that s not something we don't want to focus on. Five members of the CA XI squad of 12 that will face SA this weekend have yet to play a first-class match.Their most experienced player is middle order batsman Ben McDermott - the son of former Test fast bowler Craig McDermott - who has six first-class caps. We want to be competitive their coach Greg Blewett told reporters. Any little moments that we win is a good thing. TMG Sport