Crowned a Premier Soccer League champion as Mamelodi Sundowns best player of their campaign in May then being duly awarded the PSL s player of the season award Billiat s shooting star knows no bounds.His performances for Downs reaching the ACL final where they have a 3-0 lead to protect against Zamalek to lift the trophy in Alexandria on Sunday night would see it a major surprise if the Zimbabwean does not win Caf s local-based player of the year award.Billiat is one of five Sundowns players nominated along with goalkeeper Denis Onyango defensive midfielder Hlompo Kekana winger Keagan Dolly and new Ivorian playmaker Yannick Zakri.He will follow up the Caf Awards with Zimbabwe s first appearance at an Africa Cup of Nations finals tournament in Gabon in January since 2006.Before that there is the Fifa Club World Cup in Japan in December should Downs seal the deal against Zamalek. If you look at it in that way it s very exciting. And at the same time it s very tricky you need to be on top of your game Billiat said this week. It also tells me a story that I need to be focused. Because I don t want to be just going to the Nations Cup or just be part of the Champions League final. I want to remember the final with a very exciting game that I had very exciting moment and that I was enjoying the game as well. Billiat said Sundowns are well aware of how dangerous Zamalek can be at home where they beat Wydad Casablanca 4-0 (though that match was in their Cairo stronghold) but then lost 5-2 in Morocco in the ACL semifinals. The job is not yet done. We have to go there well focused and make sure we re in the right state of mind not thinking that it s going to be easy Downs classy little forward said. It s going to be a Zamalek with a lot of energy and arrogance. They re going to come at us with no respect. We should show that we re prepared for this we did our homework right and we still have a lot of things to achieve in football as a team. We need to grow because we have a bigger picture we re looking at. We just want to go there and score as many goals as we can. We d be happy if we score one to finish the game."We ll try and keep them from scoring and try and score more. - TMG Digital