Cassper's stage has been the topic of hot debate in world hip-hop, after Kanye West told concert-goers at his show in Canada recently that people had been trying to "steal" his idea for a floating stage. US media quickly pointed the finger at Cassper, suggesting that Kanye may have been referring to him.Speaking to 947 about the stage debacle on Friday morning, Cassper said that as a fan of Kanye West he had been inspired by something Kanye had done in the past, but said that he had the idea for the floating stage first."It's so weird because I'm such a big fan of Kanye and when we did that stage it was actually inspired by something that I had seen by Kanye," Cassper said.Although he would not go into detail on what that was, Cassper may have been referring to an overhead collection of lighting effects that Kanye used for his stage at the Glastonbury Festival in 2015.Remisincing about when ELP made one epic Lighting Rig for @kanyewest #TBT #ThrowbackThursday #KayneWest #Glastonbury pic.twitter.com/wZV1u07vJy ELP Elstree (@elpElstree) October 1, 2015Woke up to my name on American blogs about how I possibly stole kanye's stage. We did this a year ago already. lol. Ya Neh. pic.twitter.com/OEJcgrkVNo FillUpOrlandoStadium (@CassperNyovest) October 17, 2016Remisincing about when ELP made one epic Lighting Rig for @kanyewest #TBT #ThrowbackThursday #KayneWest #Glastonbury pic.twitter.com/wZV1u07vJyWoke up to my name on American blogs about how I possibly stole kanye's stage. We did this a year ago already. lol. Ya Neh. pic.twitter.com/OEJcgrkVNoThe drama has caused such a stir that it was even mentioned by one of New York's most popular radio shows this week, where host Charmalagne Tha God referred to Cassper as 'some artist in Africa.'Cassper said that more than being excited about being mentioned on US radio, he felt disrespected."It hit me that he called me 'some artist from Africa' and he said that he didn't really care about pronouncing my name right. I could have been stuck in the hype of them speaking about me on the biggest radio show in America but I was like, 'wait, where is the respect, man?''" Cassper added. Find the hottest celebrity and entertainment news on TshisaLIVE or follow TshisaLIVE on Facebook and Twitter.