Onyango had to be stretchered off and replaced by Wayne Arendse in the 28th minute after a clash with Zamalek playmaker Stanley Owahuchi in Downs 1-0 second leg defeat of the final in Alexandria on Sunday night a result that saw them run out 3-1 winners on aggregate and lift the trophy. Downs coach Pitso Mosimane reacted angrily to the incident involving his goalkeeper when asked by an Egyptian journalist after the match why Sundowns had employed time-wasting tactics. But Onyango said the collision with Owahuchi had not been intentional. It was a head collision. When he [Owahuchi] kicked the ball he hit me with his knee Onyango said. I felt paralysed for a few seconds. I couldn t feel my body. That s when the doctors came and wanted to take me off. I was feeling better after a few minutes and wanted to continue the game. But I couldn t see anything so I decided to give Wayne a chance to take the team through the final. He did a well and the team won the trophy. Mosimane though was not pleased about the incident. Onyango had appeared to be time-wasting on a few occasions before the he received a genuine injury.If he and his team-mates were it only shows how Downs have become street-smart to the realities of how to win games in continental football. However many in the stands among Zamalek s vociferous 70 000 crowd were not pleased at the tactic. A journalist asked Mosimane about this in the post-match press conference. But our goalkeeper was kicked in the head is that wasting time? a visibly angry Mosimane responded. Are you serious or are you not happy? The goalkeeper was down and you [Zamalek] kicked him in the head. What are you talking about? We played fair we don t waste time. Owahuchi was troublesome to Downs defence for the 90 minutes and scored Zamalek s lone goal in the 65th minute which came too late for the White Knights to mount a challenge to the Brazilians lead in a match played in a spectacular home atmosphere.Sandilands pulled off one fine save soon after coming on and controlled his area well after he substituted Onyango. * Marc Strydom is in Egypt as a guest of Mamelodi Sundowns