This was in 2007 when Marais who had a flourishing career as a logistics planner quit his job to take up full-time coaching. Heyneke asked me one day when I said I wanted to coach what my aims were the Blue Bulls coach who will be leading his side in the Currie cup final on Saturday revealed this week. I always said that as a coach I wanted to win the Carlton Cup (the Pretoria club championship under the Bulls umbrella) the Varsity Cup the under-21 (Provincial Championship) the Currie Cup and Super Rugby. Born and bred in Pretoria 44 years ago rugby and a love for the Bulls were set to be in the DNA of the incumbent Bulls coach.He may not have gone on to play at provincial level in his playing day but Marais played club rugby to some relative success and that is where his coaching career also began.Marais played for Adelaar before joining the Naka Bulls which he captained and also served as an assistant coach in a player-coach role.In 2005 he took over as head coach of Pretoria school Hoerskool Overkruin which he guided to victory in his first year as coach in a Pretoria schools competition.This is where Marais love for coaching and blooding youngsters took off before he shot to prominance after taking over the University of Pretoria.It was under his tutelage that Tukkies enjoyed success in the Carlton League and in the Varsity Cup where he blooded a number of youngsters who went on to for the Bulls.His current side includes a number of players who played under him at both Tukkies and in the Bulls junior teams which he coached.After winning the Carlton League the Varsity Cup and the under-21 provincial championship titles Marais now wants to add the Currie Cup before focusing on success in Super Rugby. So far I ve won a Carlton three under-21s and two Varsity Cups he said. Now this (Saturday's Currie Cup) is something that I really want [to add]."I really really want it because growing up in Pretoria the Currie Cup has always been something very big for us. For me it s a really special final this week. I m really looking forward to (the Currie Cup final in Bloemfontein on Satuday)."Obviously I would have loved to play at home but if it means we have to go down to Bloemfontein then we have to do it. It is one of my career goals to win the Currie Cup. Marais and his opposite number in the final Cheetahs coach Franco Smith were appointed only weeks apart as head honchos of the two provincial sides last year.Both 44-year-olds who have mutual respect for each other and share a similar history of success in the Varsity Cup have turned things around at their unions.The two unions had seen a decline in the standard of play under predecessors Frans Ludeke at the Bulls and Naka Drotske at the Cheetahs.Both believe in affording opportunities to young players and both have implemented an expansive exciting style of play at the two unions. Franco turned Cheetahs rugby around in one year Marais said about his Cheetahs counterpart. He won the Varsity Cup and now they are playing in the final."Franco is a good coach who understands space and attack."His side is unbeaten so far credit to them they are playing excellent rugby. Outside of rugby Marais is an avid football follower who passionately supports Arsenal and Mamelodi Sundowns.While the coach is hoping to bring back the Currie Cup to Pretoria he is confident that Sundowns will do the same with the African Champions League title they will be fighting for against Zamalek in Egypt on Sunday.A unique African Champions League and Currie Cup double triumph would send the nation's capital into a frenzy of celebrations if both sides emerge victorious. They (Sundowns) are definitely bringing it back said Marais. I think Pretoria is the best city in South Africa just put in a beach and it would be the nicest. I m a big Sundowns fan everybody knows it."I know they will definitely bring it back I m not too worried about them. If we can win the Currie Cup on Saturday it will be huge. I know Sundowns will do it. - TMG Digital