The Democratic Alliance says it is considering whether to lay perjury charges against President Jacob Zuma for lying under oath.The DA on Sunday submitted its answering affidavit to the North Gauteng High Court to oppose two applications brought by Zuma on Saturday regarding the interdict of the Public Protector s Final Report into State Capture.In the first application the President has sought to amend the relief he seeks and supplement his founding affidavit. In the second he has sought to postpone the hearing of the matter on Tuesday 1 November 2016. The DA has argued that these applications to amend and postpone are best described as bad faith technical manoeuvres that seek merely to delay the hearing of this matter and thereby delay the release of the Public Protector s final report into serious allegations of unethical and unconstitutional conduct by the President DA leader Mmusi Maimane said on Sunday. He charged that Zuma s conduct had been characterised by delays and non-compliance as evidenced by the following:The DA has also argued that the President has lied to the North Gauteng High Court. In response to the DA s founding affidavit the President noted that should it later transpire that the report is final then the report should be released. If necessary he added he would have a right to review the findings of the report. The President has now claimed that the concession that the Report should be released if final is a typographical error . He apparently meant to say that in that event the report should not be released . This is a blatant lie. It has been manufactured in an attempt to justify his attempt to abuse the court s process by amending his relief. A number of factors substantiate this claim including:Again if there was a typographical error this was the correct place to point it out. His claims that it was an error is a blatant lie. It is a transparent and calculated attempt to justify the applications for postponement and amendment. It is telling that the President is willing not only to abuse court processes but to lie under oath in order to prevent the release of the Report Maimane said. He added that the DA was considering whether to lay perjury charges against the President for lying under oath. The President s conduct deserves the strongest condemnation. His attempt to prevent the report violates both the DA s rights in terms of the Public Protector Act to have sight of the final report as well as the Public Interest Maimane added. He said the DA had accordingly asked the Court for the following order: The DA will continue to do everything possible to ensure that the State Capture report sees the light of day and the President is held accountable for his efforts to undermine the Rule of Law and the investigations of a Chapter Nine institution said Maimane.