Coetzee said this area will need improvement and the inclusion of JP Ferreira in the coaching team will prove crucial for the side.SA rugby (Saru) announced last week that Ferreira who has been a key member of the successful Lions team over the past three years would take care of the defence coaching in the Boks' matches against the Barbarians England Italy and Wales.Currie Cup-winning Free State Cheetahs coach Franco Smith will assist with the skills coaching.Given the defensive woes of the Boks since Coetzee took over the coaching reins Ferreira s contribution could prove invaluable.But will a short-term contract which only runs up until the end of the year be of any benefit to the Boks going forward?Coetzee indicated that his coaching team and Saru would take stock on their return from Europe and he did not rule out the possibility of employing the Lions defence coach on a full-time basis in future. It is something that I can t just say off the cuff said Coetzee on whether Ferreira could be a long-term solution for the side. It is something that has to have collaboration because he is signed with the (Golden) Lions. But because it s Springbok rugby whatever works and makes the Boks better. If it means JP remaining at his franchise and works for the Boks so be it."It is done all over. What we are trying to make sure is what is best for SA rugby."I know he is under contract with the Lions and we wouldn t want to take him away from there. Coetzee was part of the recent indaba which sought to find a way forward for SA rugby. There won t be any egos [in the current coaching team following the inclusion of Ferreira and Smith] said Coetzee. That has been the massive thing about the indaba. I think that has been the problem in the past years."We ve been living in our own kingdoms and thought that we were all chiefs. Where we are as a rugby nation now makes us poorer and [harder] catching up with the rest of the rugby world. I was impressed with the intellectual property that was at the indaba and the fact that coaches are prepared to leave their egos aside and make sure that we are improving on what we lack as a country and looking at the skills set that needs to be improved. Coetzee and his touring party for the end-year tour are in Johannesburg preparing for their European voyage.The coach included a number of new faces in the squad he has selected but has also stressed that the door is not closed to players who did not make the cut. There are certain guys who are on standby those who missed out [on selection] he said. They ve been informed and hopefully some of them will get an opportunity."I will then see who are the guys that can make it going forward at this level. - TMG Digital