This was revealed on Wednesday by the Ahmed Timol Family Trust after decades of struggle by the Timol family and human rights activists.The original inquest found in 1972 that nobody was to blame for Timol s death. The magistrate concluded that Timol had not been maltreated during his detention and had committed suicide.Following a private investigation launched on behalf of the family fresh evidence was placed before the NPA which suggested that the magistrate had erred in issuing such findings. The family requested that the inquest be reopened to examine Timol s death afresh.After considering this evidence the NPA agreed that there was compelling evidence necessitating the reopening of the inquest in the interest of justice . The National Director of Public Prosecutions has requested the Minister of Justice to approach the Judge President of the Gauteng High Court to allocate a judge for the hearing of the inquest. Members of the family close friends and comrades of Roodepoort teacher and anti-apartheid activist Ahmed Timol never believed that he committed suicide by jumping from the 10th floor of John Vorster Square while under interrogation by security police. It wasn't in his character to give up. They believe he was either tortured to death and thrown from the window or pushed. But despite the presentation of medical evidence of gruesome torture the magistrate who conducted the inquest at the height of apartheid bought the security police version that they had treated Timol compassionately and found that nobody could be held responsible for his death. It was obviously suicide Magistrate De Villiers found in June 1972 and there the matter has officially lain for nearly 45 years the family trust said.However it said that National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams had written to Minister of Justice and Correctional Services Michael Masutha on Tuesday requesting that the Judge President of the Gauteng High Court appoint a judge to re-open the inquest.Confirming Abrahams' request to Minister Masutha Dr JP Pretorius of the Priority Crimes Litigation Unit informed the Timol family: "We are of the opinion that there is compelling evidence that necessitates the re-opening of the inquest in the interest of justice."Timol was the 22nd person to die in police custody.Responding to the NPA's decision to pursue reopening the inquest Timol's nephew Imtiaz Ahmed Cajee said he hoped the family of Neil Aggett would get similarly good news soon.Cajee said the Timol family sought the reopening of the inquest in order to have the finding of nobody to blame reversed. Following intensive investigations the family was persuaded that members of the Security Branch of the erstwhile South African Police were responsible for the death. Substantive information had been forwarded to the Head of the Priority Crimes Litigation Unit of the National Prosecution Authority Cajee said.Cajee is presently working on the second edition of his book Timol: The Elusive Truth. He said reopening the inquest would provide critical insight into events on the last days of his uncle's life 45 years ago.Other important outstanding questions related to Timol's movements in the days leading up to his arrest. Was his underground operation compromised by an informer? And was the police roadblock at which he was arrested staged to appear that the arrest was accidental?