South African Football Association (Safa) president Danny Jordaan said club owner Patrice Motsepe and coach Pitso Mosimane deserve all the accolades they get after Sundowns beat Zamalek 3-1 on aggregate in the two-legged final. To club president Patrice Motsepe and coach Pitso Mosimane I would like to say you deserve all the accolades and you truly led from the front " Jordaan said."This is a historical first for a South African club to qualify for the prestigious FIFA Club World Cup. The FIFA Club World Cup which will take place in Tokyo Japan from December 8-18.No South African side has yet played in the annual competition introduced in 2000 and Sundowns are about to make a historic first appearance.Mosimane's Brazilians will line up against some of the best clubs in the world and they could earn a tidy sum estimated at a minimum of R5-million for participation.Their costs will be covered by Fifa including business class return tickets for the squad to travel to Japan for the tournament.Jordaan said playing in the FIFA Club World Cup puts Sundowns in line to face heavyweights like Real Madrid Athletico Nacional of Columbia and Mexico s Club America. I want to wish Sundowns all the best in their next assignment and I am confident they are up to the challenge."They showed their tenacity and technical know-how in overcoming Zamalek over the two legs. This victory will serve South African football very well and will help in building a competitive Bafana Bafana side which is part of our Vision 2022. The success of Spain is mainly because of the dominance of Real Madrid and Barcelona in Europe and globally so is Germany where the success of Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund has always worked for the betterment of the country s national team. Therefore it is important that our clubs compete successfully in continental tournaments in order to build successful national teams. Generally all our teams have improved in major tournaments in the recent past and Downs victory in the Champions League is clearly the cherry on top. In conclusion and on behalf of SAFA and football family we want to reiterate our congratulations to coach Pitso Mosimane his technical team the players and the loyal Sundowns fans; South Africa stands tall on the African continent once again. Well done. The draw for the tournament has already been made and Sundowns open their campaign in the quarterfinal on December 11 against the winner of a playoff match between the Oceania champions and the African champions.- TMG Digital