Coach Roger de Sa said he made a decision to use under-23 international Jody February in the first round match against SuperSport United at Atteridgeville instead because he feared Petersen would be mentally scared. There is little too chose between them he explained at a press conference on Monday. The biggest difference is their age they are about 18 month apart. Brandon is probably a slightly better athlete he s got a bit more character but Jody is a phenomenal goalkeeper."He just does things probably just as a good as Brandon. So there is not much between them to be fair. It was fair that I gave Brandon five games consecutively to get into the team and sort of cement his place."Obviously he doesn t lose the games on his own but he hasn t kept a clean sheet. From the performances at training I had to reward Jody at some stage. But the biggest factor why I left Brandon out on Saturday was because that is where he got his injury."On that same field. That was my biggest reason for playing Jody. I knew that at some stage Brandon was going to have flashbacks of lying on the floor with his leg facing the wrong direction. Sometimes (decisions) like that pay off and despite the defeat that was one positive that came out of the game that Jody was fantastic. added De Sa.The 22-year-old Peterson did not play from December 2014 to February 2016 a period of some 14 months after the horror knee injury suffered in a sliding challenge with Anthony Laffor of Mamelodi Sundowns.All his ligaments in his knee were torn in the challenge and initially doctors suggested he might never play again.But since the departure of Anssi Jaakkola Petersen has emerged as the Ajax No. 1 until Saturday s benching.The 20-year-old February was beaten by a Thuso Phala goal shortly after the start of extra time in Saturday s loss to SuperSport at Atteridgeville.The two sides will meet again this Saturday in the league in Cape Town but Ajax have a catch up game at home to Bidvest Wits before that on Wednesday night at the Cape Town Stadium.- TMG Digital