Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela was visibly irritated at a suggestion that Saturday s 0-0 Premier Soccer League Soweto derby draw against Orlando Pirates again did not live up to expectations.Komphela defended the performances of both teams and said the game had a lot of chances created though he did admit that the ultimate form of entertainment goals had been lacking.Chiefs coach was asked why the KwaZulu-Natal derby on Friday night could produce four goals and a 2-2 draw between Maritzburg United and Lamontville Golden Arrows but the Soweto derby SA football s glamour fixture only a dry goalless draw. I m not going to lecture I have to answer questions. One thing that we need to be very careful about is that you can t compare them. Because an immediate comparison is an insult to them [Maritzburg and Arrows] Komphela said. This is another level. And one has to give more to the game. There s a lot that we can rectify. But I thought if we are pro-football there are positives we can take up and maybe put some negatives with regards to the goals not being scored. But I saw there were instances where there was action that side action this side. I cannot imagine a situation where Chiefs and Pirates say Let s get goals. Chiefs go and defend Pirates has the ball they run and they hit the net. Pirates go and defend Chiefs has the ball they run and they hit the net . Whether you like it or not as coaches you have to defend out of possession. And you have to attack in possession. Now how we [Chiefs] attack in possession I am clear about that. And I m also aware of Pirates. And also how we needed to defend. Did we create chances was it an affair in the middle of the park? No there were there lots of box entries. There was lots of stress there. I don t think my voice would have gone if it was just a match that we needed to get through. With respect I think if we can just be more careful in our observations. I m not saying we should not be slashed hit as much as you can. But leave something for the game. Chiefs went to their seventh game unbeaten in all competitions in a derby where they shaded the play and chances created.TMG Digital/TMG Sport