It was rhetorical because the answer is self-evident. Players are not fit enough coaches are not qualified and experienced enough and unions are not run as effectively as they could be.Acting SA Rugby president Mark Alexander challenged unions to embrace the opportunity to pave a way forward to strengthen the South African game. In South Africa we have six different franchises each with their own different methods of playing the game Alexander said. Our national team players spend the bulk of the year being coached by their respective unions and then spend a short time with the Springbok coaching team before international games. This system is clearly not proving to be an efficient and effective way to manage our players well and get the best out of them. This indaba aims to find a solution to the challenges we face with collaboration and input from all our franchises. This is a very important event for SA Rugby Alexander said. We are all here to work together to share ideas and to plot a new direction for Springbok rugby a direction that can only be founded on an intense level of collaboration among all the rugby unions in South Africa. We need to identify and acknowledge the common goals we all have for Springbok rugby we need to place player welfare high on the agenda and we need to develop short-term interventions and a long-term plan to change the way we deliver the game in South Africa. Coetzee was also critical of the current SA Rugby structure and predicted that unless there was a concentrated effort to challenge the status quo the game would stagnate and regress. We need a reality check because we are living in our little kingdoms hoping and thumb sucking that we are the best rugby nation in the world Coetzee told the gathering which included all the Super Rugby coaches and chief executives. So what we are hoping to get out of the indaba is to strive for excellence to be the top rugby nation in the world. The big question is how are we going to get there? Firstly there has to be alignment between the Springboks and the Super Rugby coaches and vice versa in identifying technical shortcomings that impact on the performances of all our teams said Coetzee. It is also important to discuss and share contemporary trends opportunities and ultimately a common philosophy so that we can ensure continuous improvement and have an agreement on how to identify and to address these shortcomings. As Bok coach I have the players for 18 weeks in the year and they spend the rest with their franchises. You all know the old story about habits. How long does it take to form a habit or perfect a skill under pressure? Therefore alignment with the unions is vital because it cannot happen without you. - TMG Digital