This was the testimony of Warrant Officer Johannes Botes testifying in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Monday afternoon.Botes who is stationed at the Mount Road vehicle theft unit was part of the task team investigating Jayde s murder.As part of his investigation he visited a car rental business where it is believed alleged triggerman Sizwezakhe Vumazonke hired the car used in the kidnapping and murder of the Riebeek College Girls High School teacher.Botes indicated how upon Vumazonke s arrest they confiscated a silver Volkswagen Polo. After establishing it was not used in commission of offence I handed it over [to a car hire company] he said.Upon further investigation Botes discovered that a different car a Toyota Etios and not the Polo had allegedly been used to commit the crime.Using the car s tracker they tracked the car s movement from about 6am on the day of Jayde s disappearance April 21. We followed the track record from KwaNobuhle to Kwazakhele. It did not show Vumazonke stopping for long he said. At the residence of Jayde there were red lines indicating where he drove around. Where they allegedly picked up Jayde they drove on a back road to Rocklands. Botes said the woman remarking that Vumazonke s next move must have been KwaNobuhle then became emotional. He turned right into farm where Jayde was murdered. The woman cried because her car was used to murder Jayde he said. I tried to calm her down. Earlier an expert witness has told how a tracker fitted in the Toyota Etios allegedly used to kidnap Jayde Panayiotou on April 21 last year circled her Stellen Glen complex in Kabega Park going no faster than 25km/h before suddenly stopping then speeding off again.Later the vehicle allegedly stopped on the outskirts of Port Elizabeth where Jayde 29 was shot dead.Lorenz Stoger of Cartrack PTY Ltd told the Port Elizabeth High Court on Monday morning that on April 13 just days before the murder the rental vehicle could be traced to Ruth Street in Glen Hurd where the school teacher s colleague Cherise Swanepoel lived at the time. - TMG Digital/The Herald