Dlamini - who is facing various charges including theft being in possession of dangerous weapons damage to property and assaulting a police officer - will remain in police custody until November 15.The Economic Freedom Fighters Student Command leader at Wits Vuyani Pambo told students and workers outside court that the denial of bail to Mcebo marked the start of an intense protest. Today they are testing us. I want to say one thing and one thing only that we must not retreat and we must not surrender. The best thing we can do for those who were arrested and for those that are coming after us is to make sure that Wits University feels the wrath that we have Pambo said to loud cheers. Comrades we must not continue as usual when our brothers and sisters are kept in jail. We must make sure that (vice-chancellor) Adam Habib knows that he has committed a crime against us. We must make sure that the government of Jacob Zuma knows that they have committed a crime against us. The student leader said they will render the City of Johannesburg ungovernable. The time of hiding the truth is gone. We are demanding our right we are demanding education We must increase these numbers. We must tell everyone and close these streets. Make sure we are in large numbers. We must occupy Johannesburg."He said the modus operandi was to arrest all the leaders and they think the protest will stop but in fact it will worsen . I think the government of South Africa has learnt very well from the apartheid regime because they are now in many ways replaying and recreating apartheid tactics it's quite disgusting " added Pambo. The government of South Africa has lost its mind... If it ever had it. The students have planned to regroup at the Holy Trinity Church in Braamfontein to ensure that their struggle continues.Former Wits SRC president Shaeera Kalla said Dlamini's court case was politically motivated. When young people get immune to the smell of teargas the pain of rubber bullets and the threat of arrest then you know you are living in an abnormal society. We know that today Kalla said. TMG Digital