Or they should not.Even the Egyptian press seem divided on whether the White Knight s president Mortada Mansour has been successful in overturning a 20 000-limit on the crowd as Zamalek attempt to overturn a 3-0 deficit they suffered in the first leg at Lucas Moripe Stadium in South Africa a week ago.Some local journalists attending Downs pre-match final training session and press conference at the match venue on Saturday night said they believed the attendance would not be bigger than 40 000.One journalist said he believed Mansour had succeeded in changing the orginal 20 000 limit to 70 000 and that on Sunday night there would be closer to 80 000 of Zamalek s white-clad supporters in the stadium.READ THIS: Editorial: Sundowns must soarWith the uncertainty on the attendance Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane has sensibly prepared his side to expect the worst.He said his side have experienced their share of hostile conditions from this Champions League campaign but did admit that playing in front of 70 000 or more hostile Zamalek fans would be something bigger than what Downs have faced so far. It s important Sundowns must play their own game. It s important Sundowns continue the dominance they have had against Zamalek " Mosimane said at his final pre-match press conference on Friday night. Sundowns understand where they are. And we have prepared the team to expect the most difficult conditions (on Sunday). We ve been to Lubumbashi with TP Mazembe Kinshasa with AS Vita Chicken Inn [in Zimbabwe] was not easy to Dolisie to play Black Leopards to ES Setif in Algeria where people even invaded the pitch. So I think the mentality is good and strong. So I don t think we should make an excuse to say (Sunday) there is 70 000 . OK it s not going to be the same 70 000 has an effect. It s normal. You are a human being. You will react a little bit differently. But on the pitch it s 11 against 11. A crowd of close to 80 000 could make Sunday night s second leg far less of a formality for Downs. One early goal to Zamalek to raise the supporters noise level could make for an uncomfortable 90 minutes for the Brazilians.Even then though Downs do appear to have enough class and mental fortitude displayed throughout this competition to deal with what they might encounter on Sunday night. - TMG Digital