Persona Dolls which stand an imposing 70cm tall were first used in the United States in the 1970s by a teacher who wanted to tackle racism. They have since been used in the UK Germany Denmark Australia and India.dollsSince being launched in South African in 2004 Persona Dolls Training (PDT) has used these dolls not only to confront racisim but also sexism HIV stigma and poverty-related social justice issues.PDT SA facilitator Kim Andreoli says they have trained thousands of primary school teachers early childhood development practitioners community workers children care workers and occupational therapists in the use of the dolls.She said they represent the diversity of all the cultures in South Africa. "We have black dolls Indian dolls light skinned dolls dolls in wheelchairs and dolls with hearing aids."The idea is to challenge discrimination and prejudice by using the dolls' stories. We create personas for these dolls and then the children make friends with these dolls."They are not play dolls. They become friends of the children and through the stories that the dolls tell the children start problem solving and making decisions differently because the doll has shared stories with them " Andreoli said at an anti-racism conference held in Johannesburg on Tuesday."We are targeting teachers that work with children I don't think children do discriminate by nature but unfortunately they learn from the adults around them... racism is alive and well in South Africa and the things that children come up with they can't possibly have made their own minds up about... it definitely comes from the adults."She cited a research report that listed some of the improvements seen in children who had interacted with the dolls. "They are eager to speak about their family friends what happened at home. The children ask questions want to hug and show affection for the doll. Their empathy and affection for their 'new friend' is evident " the report found.The report also found that educators reported a "softening" of the children that they were becoming "like children again" and displaying less aggressive behaviour."Most educators find the children are listening better. They are interested in what the dolls has to say and ask so they listen and concentrate well. They are also more curious and interested in what is happening. They ask more questions and are actively engaged."Incidents of racism took centre stage in the public consciousness this year after two real estate agents Penny Sparrow and Vicky Momberg and a government employee amongst others made headlines for racist remarks.Sparrow was fined a hefty R150 000 by the Umzinto Equality Court after a crimen injuria charge was laid against her.Meanwhile Momberg's court case is still underway in the Randburg Magistrates court on the same charge after she was caught on camera insulting a black police officer who had come to help her after she was involved in a smash-and-grab incident.And the Gauteng sports arts culture and recreation department has suspended an employee Velaphi Khumalo after he made racist comments on Facebook. He was also taken to the Equality court by the Human Rights Commission.- TMG Digital