He said he had been charged in the last fortnight for an incident in April involving acting PSL chief executive officer Mato Madlala.Middendorp railed against the timing of the charges suggesting it was designed to unsettle him before Maritzburg s meeting with Lamontville Golden Arrows in the league on Friday night.He said he had objected at the time to the acting CEO of the league parading before the game we had against Arrows .Madlala is also the owner of Arrows and Middendorp suggested her conduct was incompatible with what is supposed to be a neutral role at the helm of the PSL. Now just two weeks before we play them I have a case on my table " he said."Why did they not charge me in May? Or at the end of last season? That is my question on the basis of the timing. We really have to look into this because South African football is a multi million rand business. Please understand I am feeling hunted over the last months. Middendorp was also involved in a clash with Arrows assistant coach Mandla Ncikazi who he accused of kicking him in the face after April s draw between the two clubs in KwaMashu.Ncikazi denied the accusation claiming instead the German-born coach had sworn at Arrows officials. Middendorp said he expected he would have to appear before the DC in Johannesburg this week in what he suggested was a move to unsettle him before Friday s KwaZulu-Natal derby.Asked for details about the other cases he is facing he said: I have them all in separate folders on my desk."There is one about referees and another two. At the moment it is about writing denying challenging discussing. The PSL previously used to issue press releases detailing impending DC cases and their outcomes but this information flow has ceded without explanation over the last year.Middendorp and Madlala have an acrimonious history.He took her to FIFA s disciplinary structures to force Arrows to pay out his contract after the club fired him in September 2011.The case was settled before the Swiss-based Court of Arbitration was asked to rule on the impasse.But Arrows were in July last year told by CAS to pay Kurt Kowarz the goalkeeper coach that Middendorp brought with him to work at Arrows a sum of R563 224 plus interest backdated to January 2012 after firing him without proper cause. - TMG Digital