Pietersen will re-join the Dolphins where his cricket career kicked off before he ventured to the United Kingdom and ultimately becoming one of the highly regarded English international cricketers. Pollard will again bring some Caribbean flair for the Cape Cobras where he shone last season. The domestic Twenty20 competition is without a title sponsor following the end of the deal with courier company Ram at the end of last season.CSA head of commercial and marketing former Protea Clive Eksteen revealed that there is a process of revamping the competition to compete with some of the globally recognised T20 competitions like the Indian Premier League (IPL) Australia s Big Bash League and the Caribbean Premier League.However due to the fact that the revamping is likely to happen next year only it has been a challenge to get a sponsor on a one-year agreement. I think it s a fair comment there might be some concern Eksteen said commenting on the sponsorship issue at the launch of the competition at the Wanderers Stadium on Monday. But certainly for us it is where we want to go with the competition - we really want to make it a global domestic competition. In our minds that is where some of our national players are playing plus some international players and our domestic players in one competition.Eksteen went on to explain the reasons for the challenges in bagging a sponsor on a short-term (one-year) basis. To revamp we only had one year for a sponsorship and that is quite hard for a sponsor to come in and be part of the competition for one year it s a very difficult thing he said. It s a decision that we took and unfortunately Ram could not be part of the competition we don t have a sponsor for that one year we are in transition. The CSA commercial head added that the association was at advanced stages in securing sponsors for the revamped competition from next year onwards. We re down the line [in negotiations] Eksteen said. Certainly by the close of this year there will be a lot more detail around it as to where we want to go and the structure around it. There s a lot of things that have to happen before this time next year. That is the idea [to revolutionise T20 cricket in SA]. I think South Africa is crying out for a really high-end 20-over domestic competition. While admitting to hoping that the revamped competition would gain as much traction as the popular IPL which has become a global brand Eksteen admits that there would be plenty of work to be done if they wanted to rival the multi-million dollar Indian competition. Certainly the IPL is unparalleled in my mind it is a massive competition. Just the numbers are on another scale. We certainly want to take our domestic 20-over competition up a lot and compete up there in our own way with all the other competitions in the world he said. The domestic SA T20 competition had a dark cloud hanging over its head last season when players from different provincial sides were bust for match-fixing with some including Gulam Bodi and Thami Tsolekile being handed bans from the game of cricket. Eksteen defused any suggestions that the match-fixing scandal had a hand in the lack of sponsors for this season s competition. To be honest it never came up [in negotiations]. I think it s really around how we dealt with it making sure that we want to leave no stone unturned. There is no space for it in the game. Out integrity in the game is first and foremost he said. It is not the reason for not sponsoring. - TMG Sport