On Tuesday morning Cassper's floating stage idea, which he debuted at the historic Fill Up The Dome concert last year, was discussed on the Breakfast Club radio show hosted by Charlamagne Tha God.The entire debacle started over the weekend when Kanye West stopped his live show in Canada to take aim at unnamed artists for "stealing" the idea of a floating stage."This (is) the original, accept no imitations! You with the rap God, right now. N****s be copying our sh*t bro. Stealing our shit, stealing our stages. Copying our shit one-to-one," Kanye told fans.Mr Doc Shebeleza woke up to his name splashed across US blogs, which dragged him into the fiasco, implying that Kanye could have been referring to him.Shortly after the debacle hit news wires across the globe on Monday, Cassper slammed insinuations that Kanye is referring to him, because well, the facts are clear.This obviously caught the attention of Charlamagne who unpacked the debacle on his radio show.Cassper was evidently stoked about making it onto US radio, but was a little disappointed about being referred to as 'some artist in Africa'.I listened to the lil clip on the breakfast club and after I got over the trip, I realized how I was still from "Some Artist in Africa". They will never respect us until we respect ourselves. It starts with us. We need to be more patriotic. Africa has so so so much talent!!!"Kanye been my idol&amp; as much as many can have opinions on this matter,the fact I did something dope before my idol improves my African vision. The most important thing is that we as Africans are just as great as the Kanye Wests of the world, all we need is a platform. Believe that!!!," Cassper added.Charlamagne saw the string of tweets by Cassper and acknowledged that they tried to pronounce his name but couldn't.@CassperNyovest No disrespect. Just didn't know how to pronounce your name. We tried tho.In the end they sorted it out and Cassper's suggestion to visit the show to speak about hip-hop in Africa on Charlamagne's show was welcomed with open arms.How dope! </img> Find the hottest celebrity and entertainment news on TshisaLIVE or follow TshisaLIVE on Facebook and Twitter.