Venter 25 captained Free State to the Currie Cup title on Saturday when they beat the Blue Bulls 36-16 in Bloemfontein and capped a fine day with a Bok call-up for Tests against England Italy and Wales.Venter was one of 12 uncapped players named in two squads one to face the Barbarians and the other for the three Tests.But only four uncapped players were included in both squads Venter Cheetahs wing Sergeal Petersen Blue Bulls flank Roelof Smit and Sharks flank Jean-Luc Du Preez. Francois has been knocking on the door for quite a while Smith said. Franco Smith has built depth and structure at the Cheetahs He s a solid guy that works really hard at what he does. I moved him from 12 to 13 a couple of years ago and he asked me: Do you really believe I can become a Springbok at 13? "I told him: If you believe your junior coach who put you at 12 then it will be difficult but if you are willing to work hard then you can become a Bok. We ve worked really hard on his decision-making in the No 13 channel and it would be tough to move him back to 12 but he does have the ability to play both positions. I m also happy for the rest of the guys in the Bok squad too such as Sergeal and Uzair Cassiem (in the Barbarians squad) because the Free State has been without Boks for a long time. It will give the rest of the players here belief and confidence that the path we are on in Bloemfontein is the right one. Smith has been seconded to the Springbok management for the tour as a backline consultant where he will bring over 12 years of coaching experience especially in European conditions to the squad.Bok coach Allister Coetzee made the announcement during the SA National Coaches Indaba in Cape Town this week but Smith says his role hasn't been formalised yet. I haven t had time to have a proper chat with Allister yet but we will do that in the week Smith said. Obviously there is a lot of belief about what we have done in the Curie Cup and what the Lions have done in Super Rugby (the Lions finished runners-up). I believe that we (the Boks) must be the best team out there and not necessarily the best individuals. There are 12 new players that will leave their hearts on the field playing for South Africa for the first time. We really have to consider picking only SA-based players. Johan Ackermann (Lions coach) has also said it. Let s get 45 players and work with them so we can redevelop new heroes for SA. - TMG Digital