Already Downs have shown their professionalism.They achieved a 2-0 Telkom Knockout win against Polokwane City on Thursday night at Lucas Moripe Stadium just four nights after wrapping up their exhausting Champions League victory with a 1-0 second defeat against Zamalek in Egypt (3-1 win on aggregate).On Sunday they turn their attention to just their second Premier Soccer League game against Cape Town City at Loftus Versfeld.Losing MTN8 finalists Downs manic programme saw them play a second-string side in their only other league game away against Maritzburg United on September 14 and earn a creditable 0-0 draw.Arendse admitted the comedown to domestic football after their exploits on a global stage in the Champions League which has also seen the Brazilians qualify for the Fifa Club World Cup in Japan in December might be tricky for Sundowns.He pointed out though that this has been a team that has shown professionalism and mental fortitude juggling three different competitions and an exhausting schedule in the past two months. It s a different vibe. But we need to catch it now Downs dependable centreback said. We need to start winning in the domestic competitions and also assert ourselves there because now we know the Champions League is done. The Champions League has been was our priority. And now it s out of the way we can put all our focus into the next couple for games into the league and also the Telkom Knockout before we go to Japan. The players believe that if we put our minds to it anything is possible. We need to show people we re professional enough we re not in a party mood and so on. We re here to do a job. New PSL team City lost their previous game 1-0 at home to Baroka FC. Eric Tinkler s side are in eighth place in the PSL after two wins two draws and two defeats.Saturday:Orlando Pirates v Kaizer Chiefs (FNB Stadium 3.30pm)Ajax Cape Town v SuperSport United (Cape Town Stadium 8.15pm)Bloemfontein Celtic v Bidvest Wits (Dr Molemela Stadium 8.15pm)Sunday: (all 3.30pm)Mamelodi Sundowns v Cape Town City (Loftus Versfeld)Baroka FC v Polokwane City (Peter Mokaba Stadium)Highlands Park v Free State Stars (Makhulong Stadium)TMG Digital