Mosimane was calm and cautious but quietly confident as he kept his answers uncharacteristically brief and to the point at his final pre-match press conference ahead of Sunday night s second leg in Alexandria (8.30pm SA time) where Sundowns stand on the verge of history.If this was a game of poker Downs 3-0 advantage from last Saturday s first leg in Atteridgeville gives them all the strong cards to play. Zamalek would have to be dealt some hand to come back from their position.Downs will only know once they arrive at the stadium what sort of crowd they will be up against.READ THIS: Zamalek's poor treatment of Sundowns continues as they refuse to extend same hospitality they got in SAEgyptian journalists attending the Brazilians final training session Saturday believe it will be 70 000-plus rather than the earlier 20 000 limit set by the country s authorities due to the political situation in the country.One journalist said even with Zamalek 3-0 down there have been no difficulties selling tickets and the club s supporters view this as an opportunity to back the team in an impossible situation show their loyalty and redeem some of the incidents that have taken place at football matches in Egypt in recent years.Seventy four people were killed in violent clashes at a match between Al Masry and Al Ahly in Port Said in February 2012.With a potentially packed stadium and crowd bigger more vocal and more hostile than any Downs have faced so far in the Champions League Mosimane said that how his players cope with the first 15 minutes will set the tone for how they protect their 3-0 advantage.He said Downs are not relying on their psychological advantage of beating Zamalek three times in this competition (including home and away in the group stage) to secure lifting the trophy on Sunday. Football works in the way it works. You cannot just take it for granted that you ve won three times hence the fourth time you re going to win the former Bafana Bafana coach said. I think if you ask the coach of Zamalek he believes he will win tomorrow and he has the right mentality. It s the approach every coach and team must take. I will also believe that we must win tomorrow. But tomorrow for me it s a different game it s a new game and the match starts at 0-0. That s how we approach the match. I think the first 15 minutes will tell the story. If we manage to deal with the first 15 minutes in my opinion that s the most crucial part of the game. Mosimane stressed that making wholesale changes from a winning formula that has seen Downs through to the final and saw them overwhelm Zamalek in the first leg would not make sense. We will play Zamalek the same way we have played them for the last three games. Why should we change? And I can guarantee you the coach of Zamalek [Moamen Soliman] is also not going to change. I think I know their line-up. And if I m wrong I will miss it with one player. We also need to respect the opponents. We re playing Zamalek. This team was established in 1911. Who are we to come to Egypt and disrespect? We re playing one of the biggest teams who have won this competition five times. There have been no injury scares for Sundowns since their arrival on Thursday morning. Mosimane s only change expected from the first leg is to bring Soumahoro Bangaly into his central defence for suspended Wayne Arendse.Likely Sundowns line-up: Denis Onyango Asavela Mbekile Soumahoro Bangaly Thabo Nthethe Tebogo Langerman Anthony Laffor Hlompo Kekana Tiyani Mabunda Keagan Dolly Percy Tau Khama Billiat Marc Strydom is in Egypt as a guest of Mamelodi Sundowns - TMG Digital