Nico Lee 22 centre In his first full season at this level the former Affies boy has been a revelation for the Cheetahs especially when captain and midfield partner Francois Venter missed half the campaign through injury. Lee took over the key role of organising the defence while still maintaining his penetration on attack. With nine clean breaks he ranks second even though he only ranks 32nd in terms of ball carries. It s a high ratio of line breaks per ball carry. A low centre of gravity and good acceleration as well as quick feet make him a handful on attack. Defensively his numbers are respectable too with 70 tackles. Ox Nche 21 prop The former SA under-20 front ranker has been a revelation this season where his marauding runs and good skills have seen him prosper. Nche suffered a leg injury during last week s 55-17 semi-final win over the Golden Lions so he is only on the bench for the final. But when he comes on expect fireworks because he runs clever lines from deep which allows him to hit the gainline at pace. He has made 307 metres with ball in hand as well as three clean line breaks not bad for a loosehead. He s also made a mammoth 73 tackles suggesting his work is not confined to flashy runs and scrumming. He s a proper athlete. On the downside Nche has given away the most penalties in the tournament with 12 most of which have been technical scrum infringements. Sergeal Petersen 22 wing Injury has confined the flyer to only 120 minutes of rugby in the 2016 Currie Cup but he has used that brief time to display his great ability. Sheer pace allied to a high work rate and excellent reading of the game have yielded four tries in one-and-a-half matches including a hattrick against the Golden Lions last week. Highlighting his ability is the fact that he has made eight clean breaks in that brief time during the tournament which puts him third in the category overall this season. In addition to four tries he s had four try assists as well. Defensively he s solid although the Blue Bulls will test his aerial skills in the final. Petersen is not tall (1.71m) but his explosiveness ensures he gets high off the ground to field deep kicks.