SA football has been stuck in a loop since Jerry Legs of Thunder Sikhosana scored the famous breakaway goal in Abidjan after two Asec Mimosas defenders collided and made Pirates champions of Africa a triumph that set up Bafana Bafana s 1996 Africa Cup of Nations victory.There have been successes such as when SA reached the 1998 and 2002 World Cups. But these became increasingly few as the country s football slipped into the doldrums.Sikhosana and his 1990s generation are nostalgically glorified as a result.He said a victory for Downs in the Champions League final where they take a 3-0 lead to the second leg in Alexandria against Zamalek on Sunday can help SA football move on. It s 21 years later and we still keep on talking about the goal somebody scored in 1995 Sikhosana said. It s another class and another team and they have to make sure they bring that (Champions League) star and especially the cup. Remember also that if at club level teams do well it also augurs well for the country. Downs coach Pitso Mosimane has said he has told his players that in South Africa we still talk about Sikhosana s goal and it is time for others to enter SA footballing folklore.Sikhosana though does not feel his own place in legend is under threat. I m looking forward to a challenge [to that goal] but unfortunately there won t be anyone special because this Sundowns team is more about teamwork than an individual who can score that type of goal he said. I know I will still be in the history books as the person who scored the most important goal. Sikhosana said he cannot see Sundowns losing the final after their commanding victory at Lucas Moripe Stadium in the first leg even if the Egyptian authorities backtrack on a 20 000 limit to the attendance at the 86 000-seater Borg El Arab Stadium. Honestly speaking to me the game is over. I mean there s no way Sundowns are going to lose 4-0. Never the former Buccaneer said. Sundowns can hurt anyone at any time. Keagan Dolly Khama Billiat Percy Tau all of them. Sundowns scored three with Zamalek defending at Lucas Moripe. And when Zamalek start trying to get a goal they re going to open more. And I think that s where they re going to find themselves wanting because Sundowns are going to hurt them. Even if there is a bigger crowd than 20 000 Sundowns are just too good. With away goals counting double if the score ends level if Sundowns score once in Alexandria Zamalek will need to win 5-1. - TMG Digital