Pretoria businessmen Joel Tjale Thabang Mashaba Piet Thabane and Madraai Leballo made television news when they hitchhiked and took local buses some 2000km over two days to reach Ndola for the first leg of Downs semifinal against Zesco United after a lift fell through.The four had feared they were being given the runaround and would not be included on a list of 140 supporters being taken to the second leg of the Champions League final against Zamalek in Alexandria on Sunday night.Sundowns have a 3-0 advantage to protect at Borg El Arab Stadium from the first leg in Atteridgeville on Tuesday night.The four fans had contacted the club from last week but could not get any sort of confirmation they would be on the trip. Their story was again taken up by the media and radio station PowerFM featured it on Wednesday.On Thursday the four received confirmation they will be on Friday night s flight to Cairo. Tjale told TMG Sport there is some uncertainty about a fifth friend Skeepers Malibe. junk Our dream is to reach the Fifa Club World Cup [in Japan in December]. This is a journey to reach Japan Tjale said. We re going to go to Alexandria we re going to annex the African championship. We re going to put the yellow flag on top of Africa. Tjale said if Sundowns win as expected on Sunday the five friends have not made plans yet to hitchhike to Japan. Japan is far he chuckled.On Thursday before confirmation that the friends would be travelling Sundowns' supporters coordinator Cedric Moela said the five were originally excluded because the club had its supporters branches to consider first.All five of the supporters are originally from Mamelodi.Tjale grew up a few blocks from Sundowns' clubhouse in the 1980s. He used to hang out there to rub shoulders with Downs original stars - such as Lovemore Chafunya Kennedy Malunga and Harold Jazzy Queen Legodi - when they were emerging as a force in SA football. The first thing I knew in my life was Sundowns Tjale said.The five originally had a lift to take them to Ndola for the first leg of the semifinal on Saturday September 17 but that fell through on the Thursday.They started hitch-hiking that night and arrived in Ndola at 1pm on the day of the game. When our lift fell through at the last minute the first bus to Zambia was leaving on Friday and we would have missed the game. So we said Let s put our bodies on the line let s ensure that we catch the game Tjale said.They caught a lift from Pretoria to Limpopo then managed to catch a bus which was parked for which we didn t have any booking to Harare where they slept on the street.In the morning they caught another bus to Lusaka where it was too risky to sleep on the road so they went out drinking all night then caught another bus to Ndola at 5.30am on the Saturday morning.They slept for the first time on a proper bed in a B&amp;B in Ndola that night then caught an Intercape bus back to Pretoria the following day. TMG Sport