 We have picked up some decent results and the feeling within the group now is that we can build on that he said ahead of Tuesday s meeting with Pirates in the Absa Premiership and Saturday s derby clash with Mamelodi Sundowns in the Telkom Knockout quarter-final. I m sure there is no one in our group who feels we are the finished article because we still have got a few players to come back from injury added Baxter who started Cole Alexander and Bradley Grobler for the first time after injury in Saturday s 2-0 away win over Ajax Cape Town. They were running on empty at the finish. SuperSport have now gone six matches without defeat and are up among the top five in the league standings. I do think we have a little bit of momentum but that is only something that doesn t last very long as long as you don t work on it. You ve got to keep refilling the tank and as long as we can do that I think we ll be OK. I think we are showing in every game that the players are playing the way I want them to. But sometimes we become too impatient. I said to the players at half-time against Ajax stop looking for the silver bullet . When we win the ball they feel like one pass has to play someone through. We don t need to. We need to have the intention to be ready to take on our opponents but we can keep the ball for a little bit longer and we can work around the box. When we get that balance right we look a very useful team. And when we get the balance right with reading when to go forward and press and when to let the opponent have the ball and just cut off the lines of supply and defend a bit deeper we look a good team that is difficult to play against. There are not many more elements I d like to teach the players it s more now them understanding the right moment to make the move. When you win it becomes a habit and people expect to win and when you are down at the bottom of the league and nothing breaks for you it s sometimes because you are not expecting it to break for you Baxter said. - TMG Sport