The group, who were set to perform for fans in Botswana this past weekend, had to cancel their show in the country after a 'dodgy' promoter allegedly messed them around and apparently left them stranded. The group's frontman, J'Something took to Twitter on Saturday to explain why the band was a no-show, at the event they were billed to perform at. He explained how the group had arrived at the airport only to be picked up over an hour late. They were then taken to do a sound check, with the event set to start in only a few minutes.We do sound check head to hotel and he tell us to be ready at 9pm to perform at 10pm. With hardly anytime we eat and get ready. 9pm dololo. J'Something (@jsomethingmusic) October 29, 2016Eventually he arrives at 1:30am and says we should go perform. We've been waiting literally for hours. No communication with my team AT ALL! J'Something (@jsomethingmusic) October 29, 2016Gatvol, the group decided to leave the hotel, only to discover that they would have to pay for their hotel stay and for the flight home too.We do sound check head to hotel and he tell us to be ready at 9pm to perform at 10pm. With hardly anytime we eat and get ready. 9pm dololo.Eventually he arrives at 1:30am and says we should go perform. We've been waiting literally for hours. No communication with my team AT ALL!This am we left hotel they wanted us to pay for the rooms! pay for our dinner! We made our own plan to get to airport for our 6:15am flight. J'Something (@jsomethingmusic) October 29, 2016This am we left hotel they wanted us to pay for the rooms! pay for our dinner! We made our own plan to get to airport for our 6:15am flight.We arrive. "sorry you guys don't have flights." promoter didn't pay for them. Next flight available is 1:30pm. J'Something (@jsomethingmusic) October 29, 2016We arrive. "sorry you guys don't have flights." promoter didn't pay for them. Next flight available is 1:30pm.Despite this, the group have assured their fans in the country that they would be back for a proper show soon."We don't perform here a lot. We were really looking forward to this show a lot. We apologize to the people we disappointed. Right now I am on chat with Ollie from Botswanacraft to organize a proper show soonest. His work is world class. Bots until next time," J' tweeted. Find the hottest celebrity and entertainment news on TshisaLIVE or follow TshisaLIVE on Facebook and Twitter. 