Pirates-Chiefs matches with their scale hype and the immensity of the occasion of one of Africa s two biggest derbies have a reputation for turning recent form on its head.Chiefs come into Saturday s big game having won four PSL games in a row (five league and cup) gaining in confidence with each victory after a stuttering start to the season. We appreciate the run. We are thankful about it we re getting results Komphela said. But we have to be careful. You don t go there cocky [or] you re going to get hurt. Komphela said notching another three points to continue Amakhosi s momentum is as important for his side as earning a victory over their Soweto rivals. We re sitting on 13 points and we want to make it 16. The bigger the number the more it gives you confidence and we want to do exactly that Chiefs coach said. But it s not just sweet talk. It s got to be done on Saturday. We hope we play a good game an entertaining game with goals win the match get three points and march on as we always say. The hype surrounding Saturday s derby has been significantly reduced from normal as it follows Mamelodi Sundowns 3-1 aggregate Caf Champions League final victory over Zamalek over the past two weekends.Often that hype is blamed for derbies where both Chiefs and Pirates appear more intent on not losing than trying to win. Let s hope that this narrative holds where you say that there s been less hype so the players can go in [on Saturday] Komphela said. Basically it s a principal of nature and energy that if you are too tense you won t perform. And tension is created by talk around an issue. So less talk more energy because there is no tension. But whether you like it or not when the players wake up on Saturday morning when they pull the curtain open reality strikes. When you drive to the stadium as you get on the field for the warm-up you feel the energy. One way or another it does get back to you. But it is important for athletes and sports professionals to have anxiety and not fear. When you and write an examination you need anxiety because if you don t you will be complacent and fail. - TMG Digital