This match is being played outside the international window and thus only South African based players could be selected. The squad for the Barbarians consists of 12 uncapped players, while the rest of the group performed duty in the recent Castle Lager Rugby Championship.The uncapped players are: Lizo Gqoboka (Vodacom Blue Bulls), Thomas du Toit (Cell C Sharks), RG Snyman (Vodacom Blue Bulls), Roelof Smit (Vodacom Blue Bulls), Jean-Luc du Preez (Cell C Sharks), Uzair Cassiem (Toyota Free State Cheetahs), Tian Schoeman (Vodacom Blue Bulls), Francois Venter (Toyota Free State Cheetahs), Rohan Janse van Rensburg (Xerox Golden Lions), Sergeal Petersen (Toyota Free State Cheetahs), Jamba Ulengo (Vodacom Blue Bulls) and Cheslin Kolbe (DHL Western Province).Of these players, Gqoboka, Du Toit, Snyman, Du Preez, Venter and Petersen featured for the SA A team against the touring England Saxons in June.However, the Boks have been dealt a number of injury blows with experienced players Francois Hougaard, Juan de Jongh, Francois Louw and Julian Redelinghuys, all of whom featured during the Castle Lager Rugby Championship, ruled out.Springbok coach Allister Coetzee also explained that after discussions with Duane Vermeulen, it was decided that his conditioning is not up to international standard since his recent return from injury. He will also return to South Africa in November to be with his wife when the couple s second child is born.As a result, flankers Smit and Du Preez, Petersen (wing) and Venter (centre) will remain with the Springbok squad for the remainder of the Castle Lager Outgoing Tour, while the rest of the uncapped players return home after the opening match.The Bok squad was further boosted with the return of Ruan Combrinck, who has recovered from the leg injury which ruled him out for most of the Castle Lager Rugby Championship, as well as the inclusion of the experienced JP Pietersen and Jannie du Plessis, both of whom were not involved in the most recent campaign.Meanwhile, Coetzee said he is looking to working with the group of young players in the build-up to the Barbarians match. It is great to have such a big group of young, exciting players with us for the Barbarians match. I view this this as a great opportunity to start building for the future. The selection of many of these players are part of our road map for 2019, said Coetzee. They are identified as part of our succession planning going forward. Their selection in the Springbok squad is reward for their consistently good performances this year, at both Vodacom Super Rugby and Currie Cup level. The match against the Barbarians is a great occasion for them to show that they belong on this level. It is an opportunity to show their class on the highest level and to gain experience of international rugby. My message to them would be to make it impossible for me to ignore them for future selections and to embrace this well-deserved opportunity. The Springbok coach added: Francois, Jean-Luc, Sergeal and Roelof will stay behind as part of the Springbok squad for the Tests against England, Italy and Wales. It will be good for them to experience the ethos of the Springboks while on tour and with strong performances, I am sure that they will be involved on a regular basis with the Springboks in the future. It is also very pleasing to see the return JP and Jannie, as their experience will be vital for us, as well as Ruan, who is now fully fit again. They are welcome additions to the squad because we have a long list of injured players who are unfortunately not available for selection, said Coetzee.With several tightheads out injured at the moment, there is a recall for the experienced Jannie du Plessis: We have been hit hard with injuries in that position. Frans, Julian, Coenie and a contender such as Ruan Dreyer are all injured at the moment, while several of the other experienced tightheads are playing overseas, explains Coetzee. The following players, who were part of Bok squads earlier this year, were not considered for the tour because of injuries: Lwazi Mvovo, Juan de Jongh, Francois Hougaard, Francois Louw, Siya Kolisi, Sikhumbuzo Notshe, Frans Malherbe, Julian Redelinghuys and Scarra Ntubeni. Apart from those players, other experienced campaigners such as Jan Serfontein, Handr Pollard, Cobus Reinach, Marcell Coetzee, Coenie Oosthuizen and Bismarck du Plessis are also not available, added Coetzee.Regarding the challenge of playing in the northern hemisphere, the Springbok coach said: We know that playing during winter in the northern hemisphere is always a huge challenge. The conditions are different and it requires an even more physical and tactical battle and all Test matches played in Europe were almost always decided by small margins in the past. Yes, we have a long injury list, but we prefer to see it as an amazing opportunity for the players selected in the squad. We are looking forward to turn things around on tour against quality opposition, said Coetzee. Adriaan Strauss is the captain and leads both squad in his last Springbok tour before his retirement from international rugby.Stats and facts:Springbok squad for the international match against the Barbarians 30 Players were selected for the match against the Barbarians. 12 Uncapped players in the squad The most capped Springbok is Tendai Mtawarira with 84 Tests. Three players have played more than 50 Test matches Adriaan Strauss (63), Pat Lambie and Eben Etzebeth (53 Tests each).Springbok squad for the Castle Lager Outgoing Tour: 33 Players were selected for the tour to England, Italy and Wales. There are four uncapped players in the squad. The most capped Springbok is Bryan Habana with 123 Tests. Five players have played more than 50 Test matches Tendai Mtawarira (84), JP Pietersen (69), Adriaan Strauss (63), Pat Lambie and Eben Etzebeth (53 Tests each). The average number of caps per player is 23. - SA Rugby/TMG Digital