Sharks loosefoward Jean-Luc du Plessis and Bulls openside Roelf Smit were also in both squads while there were eight other uncapped players included only in the squad for the match against the Barbarians at Wembley.But the most glaring omission was that of bruising No 8 Duane Vermeulen. According to coach Allister Coetzee the Toulon player felt he wasn t in good enough physical condition for Test rugby after a lengthy injury lay-off. Vermeulen has been playing club rugby for the past three weeks.Veteran flyhalf Morne Steyn has been axed while Francois Hougaard, Francois Louw and Juan de Jongh miss the tour through injury.Bok Coetzee appears to have conceded that wing JP Pietersen s experience and size are needed at Test level by recalling the veteran for the Test portion of the tour after omitting him during the Rugby Championship.Lions wing Ruan Combrinck is over a leg injury and has also been included in the squad.Tighthead Jannie du Plessis is unsurprisingly recalled with both Julian Redelinghuys and Frans Malherbe out injured.Coetzee named two separate squads one of 30 for the Barbarians and the other of 33 players for three Tests against England, Italy and Wales. There are 12 uncapped players.The uncapped players are: Lizo Gqoboka (Blue Bulls), Thomas du Toit (Sharks), RG Snyman (Blue Bulls), Roelof Smit (Blue Bulls), Jean-Luc du Preez (Sharks), Uzair Cassiem (Free State Cheetahs), Tian Schoeman (Blue Bulls), Francois Venter (Free State Cheetahs), Rohan Janse van Rensburg (Golden Lions), Sergeal Petersen (Free State Cheetahs), Jamba Ulengo (Blue Bulls) and Cheslin Kolbe (Western Province).Of these players, Gqoboka, Du Toit, Snyman, Du Preez, Venter and Petersen featured for the SA A team against the touring England Saxons in June. It is great to have such a big group of young, exciting players with us for the Barbarians match, Coetzee said. I view this this as a great opportunity to start building for the future. The selection of many of these players are part of our road map for 2019. They are identified as part of our succession planning going forward. Their selection in the Springbok squad is reward for their consistently good performances this year, at both Super Rugby and Currie Cup level. The match against the Barbarians is a great occasion for them to show that they belong on this level. It is an opportunity to show their class on the highest level and to gain experience of international rugby. My message to them would be to make it impossible for me to ignore them for future selections and to embrace this well-deserved opportunity. The Springbok coach added: Francois, Jean-Luc, Sergeal and Roelof will stay behind as part of the Springbok squad for the Tests against England, Italy and Wales. It will be good for them to experience the ethos of the Springboks while on tour and with strong performances, I am sure that they will be involved on a regular basis with the Springboks in the future. It is also very pleasing to see the return JP and Jannie, as their experience will be vital for us, as well as Ruan, who is now fully fit again. They are welcome additions to the squad because we have a long list of injured players who are unfortunately not available for selection. Springbok squad for the Barbarians: Lourens Adriaanse, Nizaam Carr, Uzair Cassiem, Ruan Combrinck, Damian de Allende, Lodewyk de Jager, Francois de Klerk, Jean-Luc du Preez, Thomas du Toit, Pieter-Steph du Toit, Eben Etzebeth, Lizo Gqoboka, Rohan Janse van Rensburg, Cheslin Kolbe, Jesse Kriel, Patrick Lambie, Malcolm Marx, Mbongeni Mbonambi, Teboho Mohoje, Tendai Mtawarira, Trevor Nyakane, Rudy Paige, Sergeal Petersen, Tian Schoeman, Rudolph Snyman, Roelof Smit, Adriaan Strauss (captain), Jamba Ulengo, Piet van Zyl, Francois Venter.Springbok squad for the Outgoing Tour: Willem Alberts, Ruan Combrinck, Damian de Allende, Lodewyk de Jager, Francois de Klerk, Jannie du Plessis, Jean-Luc du Preez, Pieter-Steph du Toit, Eben Etzebeth, Johan Goosen, Bryan Habana, Jaco Kriel, Elton Jantjies, Steven Kitshoff, Vincent Koch, Jesse Kriel, Patrick Lambie, Willie le Roux, Lionel Mapoe, Malcolm Marx, Mbongeni Mbonambi, Franco Mostert, Tendai Mtawarira, Trevor Nyakane, Teboho Mohoje, Rudy Paige, Sergeal Petersen, JP Pietersen, Roelof Smit, Adriaan Strauss (captain), Francois Venter, Piet van Zyl, Warren Whiteley. - TMG Digital