Early this week the Pretoria side took fullback Ulrich Beyers out of the reckoning for Saturday's (5pm kickoff) Currie Cup final clash against the Free State Cheetahs in Bloemfontein.The 25-year-old dislocated his shoulder in the Bulls semifinal victory against Western Province at Loftus Versfeld last weekend and had a protective sling on Monday.The signs didn't look good and it seemed he would miss out on a historic final.But Beyers made a miraculous recovery which even coach Nollis Marais cannot explain when he returned to training on Tuesday fully recovered and ready for action. It s a miracle Marais said on Thursday when he named his match-day squad for the final. On Monday he was in a sling and Tuesday he was running around. It s a real miracle. Beyers fitness kept the changes in Nollis's squad to a bare minimum.The Bulls coach was happy to be able to maintain continuity ahead of the clash against the undefeated Cheetahs side.He only made just one forced change to the squad that beat Province in the semis last weekend.The only omission in the side is that of lock RG Snyman who suffered a concussion and fractured facial bone in the semifinal.The lanky lock has been replaced by Jason Jenkins who has had an equally impressive season and will partner up with Marvin Orie in the second row.Marais opted not to include another lock on the bench but has included two loose-forwards Hanro Liebenberg and Nic de Jager among the forwards cover.Should a need arise to replace any of the starting locks the coach will switch Jannes Kirsten who is starting at blindside flank to the second row. We had the same cover in Super Rugby. We knew that if RG Jason or Marvin got injured Jannes would come in [at lock]."Even though he has played only one game there for us I think Jannes would be better at lock and then Nic (de Jager) and Hanro (Liebenberg) can come in the loose-forwards Marais explained. RG is a big loss. I mean he is disappointed."If we waited another day maybe he could have played but I don t think that would be the best for the team. We have worked hard with all the guys and I don t want put somebody like RG in where he is forced to play and he doesn t play well and drops the whole team."He then doesn t look like the player that he is."It s a big loss for us he s a great rugby player but we will always do what s best for the team. Cheetahs coach Franco Smith too has made just one change to the starting XV that demolished the Golden Lions 55-17 in last week s semifinal.The change in the side that will enjoy homeground advantage comes in the front row where Charles Marais will get a start at loosehead prop ahead of the exciting Ox Nche.Nche sustained a knock to the leg against the Lions and felt some discomfort in the build up to the final but the former Junior Springbok remains in the team as he will be brought on from the bench.The Bulls remain confident going into the championship-decider despite the dominant Cheetahs side having not suffered any defeats in the domestic competition this year. This weekend it doesn t matter whether they (Cheetahs) gave the Lions 50 points last week [in the semi]."If you look at the game we played it was a good game. I think the guys are playing good rugby and are playing for each otherThe teams are: Cheetahs: Clayton Blommetjies Sergeal Petersen Francois Venter (c) Nico Lee Raymond Rhule Niel Marais Shaun Venter Niell Jordaan Uzair Cassiem Paul Schoeman Reniel Hugo Justin Basson Aranos Coetzee Torsten van Jaarsveld Charles Marais. Replacements: Jacques du Toit Ox Nche Armandt Koster Henco Venter Tian Meyer Fred Zeilinga Rayno Benjamin Conrad van VuurenBulls: Ulrich Beyers Travis Ismaiel Dries Swanepoel Burger Odendaal Jamba Ulengo Tian Schoeman Rudy Paige Arno Botha (c) Jannes Kirsten Roelof Smit Marvin Orie Jason Jenkins Jacobie Adriaanse Jaco Visagie Lizo Gqoboka. Replacements: Bandise Maku Martin Dreyer Nic de Jager Hanro Liebenberg Piet van Zyl Josh Stander Bjorn Basson Pierre Schoeman. - TMG Digital