President Jacob Zuma with these words said he d had enough of being abused during his last question and answer session in Parliament. If this house is not interested in me answering questions you must say so then don't call me he said. Forty-two days can be a long time in politics. Much has changed since Zuma last answered questions on September 13.Zuma was at the time at pains to point out that government was not at war with itself as had been suggested earlier by his deputy Cyril Ramaphosa.He also downplayed any suggestion of tension with National Treasury: There is no war between the Presidency and Treasury. Zuma faces fresh questions on Tuesday as deep divisions emerge within the African National Congress (ANC) over a decision to prosecute Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. Struggle veterans and prominent ANC members have voiced their support for Gordhan. Others in the party including the youth and women s leagues have called for Gordhan to step down.ANC parliamentary chief whip Jackson Mthembu said at the weekend that members of the party s National Executive Committee including Zuma and Ramaphosa should step down.But Mthembu had defended Zuma on September 13 when he was labelled a criminal and a thief by opposition parties and both the Congress of the People and the Economic Freedom Fighters staged a walk-out. We have been abused and abused. The president has been abused " said Mthembu at the time.At that sitting Zuma told the speaker: I think this house must do something about it. Because you are going to make it very difficult for me to fulfil my constitutional obligation. I think if I don't raise the matter chair I think I will be failing in my duty. I don't think I should always come here to face people who are not respecting the house in my view. And I have to sit here and wait for the kind of discussions. Your house must do something. If this house is not interested in me answering questions you must say so then don't call me. I thought I should make that point said ZumaIt remains to be seen how events will unfold on Tuesday. TMG Digital