This morning four students tried to disrupt a lecture in the New Commerce Building and set off a fire cracker in a lecture in the FNB Building. Management said the lecturer and students had to continue with the lecture outside the venue.Last night some WitsPlus lectures were disrupted on the Wits West campus. Two cars were also overturned by protesting students on the Wits Braamfontein campus yesterday.Two cars were also set on fire last night one on Hostel Drive and another outside the Old Mutual Sports Hall. One fire was put out but the second car was gutted."Video footage shows that three suspects were involved in this incident " Wits said."One person broke the window of the car poured a flammable substance in through the window and set it alight. It exploded immediately and it appears that the suspect collapsed and was thrown to the ground. He was carried away by two other individuals. The police are investigating this case of arson."The ongoing arson and disruptions meant that Wits could not yet lift restrictions on movement around campus after 10pm. Wits said: "We will continue to relax the conditions progressively as the situation stabilises whilst continuing to open up more spaces for academic study after 10pm for those committed to their studies."". . . Please understand that we are doing all that we can under very trying conditions to complete the 2016 academic programme. We cannot guarantee that it will run 100 percent at the moment but we are doing all that we can to save the academic year."The alternative is to shut down the University which will impact adversely on the lives of 36 000 students thousands of staff members and the 7 000 first years that we need to welcome in 2017. While there are some who would like to see the 2016 academic programme sacrificed we cannot allow this to happen. We will continue to fulfil our mandate to respect the wishes of the majority who want to complete the year and we will continue to persevere until the year is complete."STATEMENT: Fire in the Wartenweiler Library: https://t.co/9L8vNCAN5W A high-level investigation is underway by Wits Security and the police. pic.twitter.com/J1njpkptWK