The Cheetahs have been dominant in the domestic competition discarding the opposition with ease on the way to becoming the only side to have not suffered defeat in the Currie Cup this season.While Franco Smith s coalition of Cheetahs have played with confidence that has not been seen in the Free State in years Bulls backline coach David Manuel believes that playing in the final and the burden of trying to please the home fans will put their opponents under a considerable amount of pressure come 5pm on Saturday. The Cheetahs have had a good season and play some awesome rugby. We don t expect anything different Manuel told Times Media on Wednesday. [Coach] Franco (Smith) has been innovative in his thinking and has brought something special in how he has coached the side. We have prepared based on what they have shown [this season] but we also expect something new. Anything is possible from the Cheetahs. But I do believe that the pressure will be on them as the hosts. There is huge expectation from them. I believe we are the underdogs going into this game and I believe in underdogs. While admitting to nerves having reached the ceiling ahead of their semifinal against Western Province at Loftus Versfeld last week Manuel revealed that there was a confident calm in his side as they prepare for the final. There is a good excitement. We are just happy to be in the final he said. Ahead of the semi we were a bit nervous because we knew we only had one shot at it it was a once-off opportunity. Now that we are in the final there is a different feeling. This week we have been working on making sure that we understand what we need to do. Most important will be mentally in a space where we know how to absorb the pressure that comes with being in a final. The Bulls may be ruing the loss of influential lock RG Snyman who suffered a fractured facial bone in the semi but Manuel is excited about the return of Bok scrumhalf Piet van Zyl from a concussion injury.Not only will Van Zyl s experience prove invaluable but so too will his knowledge of the Cheetahs after having played for the Free State side between 2010 and 2013. Losing RG is a big big loss for us. We are grateful for having Piet van Zyl back because the experience he brings for the unit said the Bulls backline coach.As backline coach Manuel has added some spark which has made the Bulls backline one of the most exciting units on the domestic scene.The coach who took over as assistant coach following the appointment of head coach Nollis Marais last year is proud of the strides his charges have made and how they have embraced the Bulls new expansive style of play. Taking into consideration that we came in and took charge a year and a half ago we can be satisfied with the evolvement of the side. Mentally too the players have been embracing the new way of play. They are loving and enjoying it he said. Whether we implement a kicking game or a running game the mentality is to attack. I m very proud of the backs unit guys like Jamba Ulengo Travis Ismaiel and Tian Schoeman who have shown incredible composure. Even when mistakes are made they bounce back. It is all these things that we see as small successes that have contributed to the growth that has been so amazing in this team. I m really proud of the guys and I look forward to building a future with them. The Bulls and Cheetahs will be naming their teams for the final on Thursday. - TMG Digital