Wing Sergeal Petersen represents the type of player that could make a huge difference in the longer term.But because of the weather conditions and quality of the opposition England and Wales in particular this is not a tour where his speed and flair will be at a premium. In wet cold conditions against two sides who are organised on defence and attack intelligently playing the percentages is the best route to victory for a Springbok side still unsure of its identity. Coach Allister Coetzee has already made the right noises suggesting that the coming games won t be about expansive rugby but rather about grimly winning the field inch by inch. England on November 12 loom as the most important game on tour although by the time the Boks get to Cardiff to face Wales on November 26 they will be on their last legs after another long and gruelling season. So how can Coetzee improve the team given that he has gone with the bulk of the squad that did duty in the Rugby Championship and suffered four defeats in six matches? Well Pat Lambie at flyhalf would be a good start.The Sharks pivot was used as a fullback against the Wallabies and New Zealand at home last month and did the job with moderate success.But he is a proven match-winner in the northern hemisphere with his ability to tactically control the match from No 10. Elton Jantjies has been retained in the larger group but it s hard to see him starting again especially with Lambie s presence in the team. Scrumhalf is also far from sorted but Rudy Paige showed he has a good kicking game clears rucks quickly and communicates well.He was also very good against the Wallabies at Loftus earlier this month before concussion ended his day and should be given another chance. The return of JP Pietersen is a huge boost.The big wing has hardly ever played a bad Test and his ability to break tackles and defend his position is vital.He ll also be richer for six weeks of playing in British conditions with Leicester.The Bok backline has also been seriously short of experience which Pietersen with 69 caps will enhance. Ruan Combrinck is over his injury but he hasn t played in two months and it would be a risk to throw him in as a starter against England.So a place on the bench with Pietersen Bryan Habana and Willie le Roux making up the back three would look solid. The Bok midfield has misfired all season so the introduction of Francois Venter is one with defensive organisation in mind as much as attack. Venter has no Test experience but at 25 he has been around the block at Super Rugby and provincial level and does bring composure to the outside centre channel. Coetzee might be thinking of Venter as a No 12 although Cheetahs coach Franco Smith was at pains to point out after Saturday s Currie Cup final win that he s spent 18 months converting Venter into an outside centre.The two positions are not as easily interchangeable in the modern game. Up front the Boks virtually pick themselves although Francois Louw s absence through injury has created an openside flank problem.The loose trio also lacks real power on the slower northern hemisphere fields. Jaco Kriel is a good carrier and link player but his prowess over the ball is limited and he doesn t have the physical presence of a Duane Vermeulen or Schalk Burger. Unfortunately by overlooking any other experienced candidates for the openside role such as Heinrich Br ssow there is nowhere else for Coetzee to turn against England. Kriel will have to step up and this tour presents him with a great chance to show that he is a genuine openside.If not his brief Test career could stall in its infancy with the impressive but inexperienced Roelof Smit waiting for his chance. Possible Bok team versus England: 15-Willie le Roux 14-JP Pietersen 13-Francois Venter 12-Damian de Allende 11-Bryan Habana 10-Pat Lambie 9-Rudy Paige 8-Warren Whiteley 7-Teboho Mohoje 6-Jaco Kriel 5-Pieter-Steph du Toit 4-Eben Etzebeth 3-Vincent Koch 2-Adriaan Strauss (captain) 1-Tendai Mtawarira: Reserves: 16-Malcolm Marx 17-Jannie du Plessis 18-Steven Kitshoff 19-Lood de Jager 20-Willem Alberts 21-Faf de Klerk 22-Elton Jantjies 23-Ruan Combrinck. - TMG Digital