The latest season of the comedy kicks off six months after that, with Peralta and Holt masquerading as two civilians living in Florida, ostensibly the sweaty armpit of the US. Holt, a stiff gay man, has taken on the persona of a sexually insatiable straight amusement park worker who frequently mentions "weighty breasts" to his senior citizens' walking group. Peralta lives next door to him as a motorbike salesman with frosted tips. They find themselves going stir crazy as the prospect looms of living out the rest of their lives in suburban monotony.It's a good premise to start with, but Brooklyn 99 has never been a premise-driven show, instead its laughter-inducing ability comes from the collection of oddballs that populate the show. Take detective Charles Boyle (Joe Lo Truglio) for instance: there are bowls of glitter that are more traditionally masculine than he is. The victim of a divorce, in which his wife won sole rights to his frozen sperm, Boyle's love for questionable exotic food and hero worshipping of Peralta coalesce to form one of the strangest lumps of human to ever speak in sentences. He says things like, "I got aroused last night watching a nature documentary on bees. I was fine until they went inside the hive", and describes a colleague as an "enormous, muscular Ellen DeGeneres".The rest of the crew are equally ridiculous in their own ways and that all makes for a barrel of laughs. What this show does best is take juvenile humour and elevate it above the the usual fart jokes. In fact the humour is surprisingly smart without being too smug about it.Watching Brooklyn Nine-Nine is like having an imaginary tea party with your favourite teddy bear - it's warm, accessible and a little bit dishevelled. Just like your times with Mr McSnuggles, watching Brooklyn 99 is a fun way to kill half an hour before bedtime rolls around. CREEPY SERIES FOR HALLOWEEN:STRANGER THINGS If M Night Shyamalan and ET had a cinematic love child, Stranger Things would be the most likely result. Set in the '80s, the show tracks the story of a young boy's disappearance and an androgynous girl with interesting abilities.AMERICAN HORROR STORY With each season centered around a different horror-specific theme, it's perfect for those hoping to slide a sly arm around a future bae when she gets a fright. The latest season, airing now, has gone with the documentary-style haunted house theme.THE WALKING DEAD What's better for Halloween than zombies, right? If you've got a mountain of time on your hands you can start right at the beginning of the undead apocalypse and wind your way through the many traumas. Alternatively you can parachute in at season 5. Either way you are guaranteed gore, guns and Grimes. Season 7 premiered earlier this week.WESTWORLD Have you ever wondered what would happen if people had a space to do whatever they wanted with no repercussions? That's the question this series tackles. Set in a Wild West themed amusement park where acting out your bloodiest and most carnal desires on robots is de rigueur, the show toys with the idea of what happens when the machines say enough is enough.PREACHER Mix sex, drugs, violence and religion and you get Preacher. Based on the comic book, the show follows the story of a pastor who gets mysterious powers just as a whole lot of strange things start happening in his town.