Proving, once again, to his detractors that he has the potential to shut down one of the biggest stadiums in the country, the 2 Legit hitmaker was successful in raising the bar (again) for local artists when he almost filled up Orlando Stadium, with approximately more than 30 000 fans for his hotly-anticipated concert on Saturday night.No, wait. It wasn t a concert. It was one of the biggest music festivals that SA has ever seen! Boasting a star-studded lineup including Emtee, Riky Rick, Babes Wodumo and wait for it, Wizkid.And boy was it a turn up.These are 5 standout moments which totally suspended us in a state of amazement:Somizi and Boity: hosts with the mostIt s never a dull day when Somizi is around. So it was no surprise that he (in a gold ensemble) alongside Cassper s ex Boity kept the crowd entertained, before the golden boy s performance.A photo posted by Somizi (@somizi) on Oct 29, 2016 at 10:34pm PDTBabes Wodumo meets CassperIt s confirmed, Babes and Cassper make the most fierce dance duo. They gave us a sterling performance, and the crowd couldn t stop cheering. Cassper also debuted a new kwaito song he did with Babes. Let s just say it s lit!Star-studded lineupBabes wasn t the only artist that jumped onto stage with Cassper. One after the other, and hit after hit, the rapper was joined by the likes of Doc Shebeleza, Nadia Nakai, Riky Rick, Emtee, Mgarimbe, and Wizkid, with each of them giving us electrifying performances. We were spoilt!Cassper and Boity reunitedThe crowd went bonkers when Cassper called out his special friend Boity onto the stage to help him demonstrate how guys should court a girl, which obvs saw him serenading his ex live in front of thousands of fans. We must admit, it was great seeing them together like that. And before we could get our hopes up on a possible romantic reunion, they asserted that they remain good friends .Casspers sheds a tear as he remembers his grandmaIt was one of the most heartfelt moments of the evening, when Cassper started crying on stage as he remembered his grandmother, who died last year, a day before the MTV Africa Music Awards. He opened up about how she motivated him and believed in him. So, when he took a moment to catch sight of the magnitude of his mammoth event, he couldn t hold back the tears. He also expressed his gratitude for every ticket bought and to every fan who supported him on his biggest night.As Cassper closed the show, he announced that he would be taking on yet another task next year: to fill up FNB Stadium. Given the success of #FillUpOrlandoStadium and #FillUpTheDome, there is not a shred of doubt that he s going to be able to pull it off.